[Music]
Thank you, Jamie. I'm trying to figure
out where is the AI talent this morning.
But anyway, that's a whole separate
issue. I hope you guys had a good uh
conference yesterday
and uh went through a lot of different
sessions.
U to me this topic has a lot of
resonance because
u we're going to talk about why there is
an urgency to make sure AI talent is
spread across regions, industries,
communities.
Um because democratizing AI talent is
about making sure innovation spreads
everywhere so that the United States can
lead responsibly in the global AI race.
I come to this um topic uh on a personal
basis. My son recently graduated with a
degree in AI. So I asked him basically
where was he and his friends going to be
looking for jobs and without batting an
eyelid he said
that same three four companies that are
the big u global giants in the tech
world and they're great companies. Some
of you might be working for them.
There's nothing wrong with that. But it
really for me that was a
moment that really struck me that if all
the AI talent ends up
in a few companies in a few zip codes,
then what is it that we are creating?
What happens to the uh diversity of
thought? What happens to the diversity
of talent?
uh if AI is going to be the next
generation important
tool or technology that's going to
transform
how we treat diseases, how we educate
our children, how we move goods across
the board, then are we sure we want to
have this future being built in two zip
codes with a narrow set of people
focused on a narrow set of problems? So
that's where I thought it's something at
least important to talk about. This is a
conference of u AI people. My personal
background is in by the way my son did
take a job in one of those companies but
that's a whole separate issue. But
the question really for us is at least
as a country is making sure as we are
heading into this technology we know
what we're doing. So I thought I'll
raise this issue to all of you who are
amazing practitioners, entrepreneurs,
policy leaders etc. This is part of uh
the AI policy summit. Uh it's uh to me
an important topic. So u I'm going to
basically lay out to you certain facts.
Some of them probably obvious to you but
from a personal standpoint it became a
little more obvious as I said listening
to my son. And why does it really
matter? Because
you know, hey, social media is uh being
concentrated, uh cloud has been
concentrated, why does it really matter?
And then is there something that I, you
can do about it or should do about it?
So I'll just walk you through a few
things. Um just to give you some
perspective
40% of the top AI researchers in this
country are at four basic universities
and you would say hey they are great
universities and they are fantastic
universities but that also talks about
what's happening in terms of AI talent
in other places and that's a scary uh
thought from that perspective in terms
because talent is going to keep going
into those kind of uh educational
institutions.
And then if you think about it, 77%
of AI jobs are clustered in 10 metro
cities. There are 300 cities in this
country that have the balance of those
jobs. And again, you would say again
that's a tech technical problem. But if
you were here yesterday with some of the
sessions we had, AI is a very different
technology. It's a general purpose
technology and as I said, it's going to
impact everything that we do. And if
that is the case and then finally think
about the amount of money that is
getting invested in AI just in the first
half of the year and 50% of it was
basically spent in Silicon Valley
and this is not to take any shots at
Silicon Valley. If some of you are uh
from Silicon Valley, you know, power to
you. I support your free kombuchas, nap
parts, etc. I just want to make sure the
rest of the country also gets its share.
So that's just kind of a little bit of a
ground framing of the situation that we
are in.
So why is does it matter? And I kind of
lay out that it's basically it leads to
concentration of talent
from a competitiveness also it does
impact our competitiveness and then
there's an industry and a geographical
gap uh that happens because of this. So
if you really look and I don't know if
you are in the world of AI I'm sure
everybody kind of knows what's happening
in terms of salaries and packages that
are being handed out. uh to the top tier
of AI researchers. And I'm all for uh
folks getting them. I hope my son one
day gets uh one of those packages too.
But it does have implications when you
give 14 billion to acquire aqua hire a
company or you pay hundreds of millions
of dollars. What happens to mid-tier
researchers across companies in
different regions? And I think that's
really the hyper concentration and an
elite class of AI that is getting
generated. Now if you're in that elite
class, you say, "Hey, what's the big
deal? You look at the NBA, there's
always best players in the NFL, we've
had the best players, etc."
But as as I said this technology is
going to be working on curing diseases
for you, educating your children in many
many other aspects. So we need to make
sure that what we are getting into.
So again my perspective is that as a
country we need to be leading by
inclusion not by exclusion. And why is
that important? If a lot of you are
building AI systems,
if there is not a diversity of thought
from a regional standpoint, from a
people standpoint, from an industry
standpoint, you're really not going to
have strong AI systems that can solve
the kinds of problems that we are trying
to solve. Whether it is in medicine,
whether it is in manufacturing, whether
it is in retail, etc. it is going to
have a very very narrow focused area.
So just think about what's happening
across industries and this is something
I work a lot on is you know people
always talk about the tech industry and
most of you I would presume a lot of you
work in the tech sector but there is
something beyond the tech sector. Look
at where the AI adoption rate is
happening in things like manufacturing,
happening in retail, healthcare,
financial services. Look at the GBAs of
some of these industries that are
projected by 2035.
But how do you think these industries
are going to achieve the things that
they need to achieve?
manufacturing with predictive
uh maintenance, supply chain, retail for
targeted marketing and then when you
look at healthcare diagnostics, delivery
of healthcare,
finance for fraud detection, algorithmic
buying etc. I mean those are important
things that happen but each of these
industries is suffering from a absolute
talent crunch because
if you are coming out of school or if
you are an AI uh top tier person you
probably are not ending up in some of
these industries. So if you see
what is happening is
these industries are really struggling
to get the talent that they need and
that is a very very important issue
because when these industries struggle
we're going to lack the innovation that
is needed for these industries from that
standpoint. So we have an industry gap
and then there is a geographical gap
that exists. Think about it. 77% of AI,
when I said AI in metro jobs, what's
happening in rural or small towns? What
happens to small companies in those
areas? What happens to, you know, health
care systems in rural areas? They need
to implement AI to transcribe what
physicians are doing from a diagnostic
standpoints, etc. But when you look at
this map,
you see all the greens. They're
generally heavily towards the coastal
areas and talent happens to be
everywhere but in many cases opportunity
is not for them.
So
what do you think we can do? I mean this
is some things that as I said I've been
thinking about is we really need to
rebuild the talent pipeline that we have
in this country and we need to have some
policy partnerships whether at the
federal and the state level and then we
have to highlight champions unsung
champions and then also we need to
engage hyperscalers who are investing in
data centers around our country.
So
in terms of building or rebuilding the
talent pipeline, we really need to focus
on different different entry points for
education whether it's community
colleges.
A lot of people in our country go into
two-year community colleges and we need
to make sure there is strong engagement.
Nvidia has set up a partnership in
California with community colleges to
train people in AI and then vocational
programs and online courses too so that
it can be spread. Now obviously we see
Corsera and some of these other things
that are doing nano degrees and uh
things of that nature but also we need
to make sure that we are upskilling the
workforce. It's great to get talent in
but what about the people who are
existing in those companies in that part
of the uh country. Walmart is doing a
reskilling of its employees and some of
these other employers have taken it on
to reskill the employees because that is
going to be an important aspect of what
we do. So that rebuilding our talent
pipeline is very very critical
and then what can we do at a policy
level and this is where federal and
state both come into the play. The
federal government with the uh the Trump
administration recently announced the AI
action plan. We're going to have a
session uh later this afternoon. If you
have the time come we have some great
speakers on that. But a big part of that
is in terms of education and creating a
talent pipeline across the country. And
the other thing is uh NAR and what is
NAR? It's a national AI resource
research facility which gives AI compute
as well as data to academic institutions
and small companies around the country
because everybody can't afford a GPU or
people don't have access to data sets.
So this gives you a free access to that.
States have gotten into the act too. A
lot of states now are working. Wisconsin
is working towards how can we build an
AI hub. They work with Microsoft to
train 100,000 people uh in Wisconsin
towards that. So I think states have a
big big role towards that. And then
finally there is the orise AI challenge
which is helping even at K12.
We can start early on at K12. So when
you look at what uh the godmother of AI
Fifi Lee she has AI for all program
which really gets into K12 education
early on across the board.
What this is something that we are
doing. I run a nonprofit called Kaio uh
connect which means the chief AI
officers connect and our focus really
why do we do this is there are
organizations besides the three four big
tech companies or fang or whatever the
acronym is right now that are doing
incredible work whether it is in
manufacturing whether it is in retail
whether it's in industrial uh you know
platforms
we basically bring them over and tell
them tell our audience and tell the
people what innovative stuff are you
guys doing within your companies and
what why should people come in and work
for you. So when you look at some of the
things that companies and these are just
a few but some of them are here by the
way you know Johnson Controls Industrial
Control Company Schneider Electric huge
again in terms of uh batteries and
electric stuff Granger office supplies
their chief officer is here Michelin
tires
Emerson Electric and many many others
and why do we do that because I don't
want the next kids coming out of school
to say, "Hey, these are the only
companies that are doing cool AI
things." Because when you listen to
these folks, they are doing they're
implementing AI for incredible stuff for
temperature control in this uh facility.
Johnson Controls and companies like that
are using AI to do that stuff. And then
again, Granger from Office Supply to
track all the different kinds of things
that they have within them. So there's
some amazing creative things that are
happening and we need to highlight and
showcase uh you know these kinds of
companies
and then again 200 billion is going to
be spent by these hyperscalers around
the country in data centers. They need
these data centers because AI data
centers are critical. some of the
companies and some of the states states
need to say hey if you want to invest
and they need these investments you need
to commit to training locally out here
in AI and AI technologies and I think
that's very very important for states to
be doing
so
what can we do together
well I told you what we are doing I
would say investing education Community
colleges to me are very very important.
Supporting public private partnerships I
think are critical.
The other thing I think is supporting
open source. Open source is really
critical. If people say hey AI is the
new electricity well open source make
sure the lights are on for everybody not
just for a select few. So I would say
support open-source because it gives
access to everybody and then
spotlighting uh companies that are not
part of this genre. There are so many
other companies that are doing some
creative things highlight them and then
promote remote and distributed work.
kind of right now it's kind of not in
vogue after co we went remote there now
we are back in there but there are
people in rural areas in other parts of
the country that have the talents that
don't want to move can't move and we
don't tap into those skills AI work can
be done everywhere so I would say is you
know let's give that an opportunity too
so finally I would say is I'll come back
to my son's story is imagine when he was
graduating out. He and his friends said
that, you know, instead of working for
these three four great companies, we
want to work for a manufacturing company
in Michigan or we want to work for a
energy company in Texas or we want to
work for a healthcare company in Ohio.
Think about the benefits that we as a
nation would get because AI talent
really should be everywhere in every
city, every classroom, and every
community. I think if that happens only
if that happens we as a country are
going to really benefit and as a
community because this has a social
impact too what we don't want to do is
create an AI divide just like we call it
a digital divide this has even a bigger
consequences in doing that so I hope um
you folks will do your part we are doing
our part in there so thank you so for
coming and listening to democratizing AI
talent and all of you have great talent
and I hope that uh we get a chance to
engage with you. Thank you so much.
