AI could be quite powerful with the
internet of things with sensors in the
ground and um drones taking pictures
satellite imaging uh lots of data that
can come and help in the crop production
of connectivity provide that basic
framework the basic building block
towards using AI and applications and
short AI is moving fast uh it's hard to
regulate something moving this fast but
it's important to agree on some
principles to have some guard rails and
to develop the international standards
to help the policy makers navigate.
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast.
Join host Sanjay Puri as he explores the
dynamic and developing world of
artificial intelligence governance. Each
episode features deep dives with global
leaders at the forefront of regulating
AI responsibly, tackling the challenges
using AI can bring about head-on and
enabling balance without hindering
innovation.
[Music]
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast,
the leading global platform promoting
responsible, ethical and trustworthy AI
practices. I'm your host Sanjay Puri and
today we have the pleasure of speaking
with Dr. Bilal Jamusi a distinguished
engineer, diplomat and global leader in
telecommunications, standardization and
AI governance. We are speaking ahead of
the
uh very very important conference uh AI
for good that's going to be held from
June July 8th to the 11th in Geneva,
Switzerland. Dr. Jamusi serves as the
deputy director of the ITU
telecommunications standardization
bureau and the chief of the study groups
and policy department in Geneva,
Switzerland. Under his leadership at
ITU, he has paved the way for creating
digital payments guidelines and
standards that foster financial
inclusion globally.
Dr. Jamusi, welcome to the Regulating AI
podcast. It's an honor to have you on
the show.
Thank you very much Sanjay for having
me.
Wonderful. Dr. Jamusi, we have a global
audience. Uh our audience is made up of
uh policy makers around the world,
members of Congress, Senate, governors,
members of European Parliament and other
uh leaders around the world as well as
uh AI entrepreneurs and activists. So
for them uh and this conversation is
really about them. you've been
instrumental in the development of AI
for good at ITU. Can you tell us how
this uh groundbreaking initiative was
conceived and what drove the
organization to create this platform?
Thank you very much. Let's um you know
maybe first uh what is the ITU um and
that's why we created AI for good. ITU
is the uh United Nations digital uh
specialized agency for digital
technologies. Uh we've been around for
160 years and have evolved with
technologies from the days of the
telegraph when the ITU was established
in 1865
to today's artificial intelligence. So
over the past 160 years, the ITU has
evolved uh thanks to its unique
membership of 194 countries or member
states and a thousand private sector
entities in academia. And that unique
private public partnership allowed us to
kind of evolve uh with the technologies
uh from telegraph to telephone to
wireless to fiber optics uh and and
today to uh artificial intelligence. Um
and so about seven eight years ago uh
2017
we started seeing a lot of interest in
artificial intelligence and machine
learning as a new tool uh to solve
complex problems. Um the cost of uh
compute was going down, the uh cost of
storing data was going down. Uh and so
uh lots of innovation on machine
learning and algorithms started being uh
possible.
And uh at that time we thought of maybe
convening an AI for good summit in
Geneva. This was in 2017.
uh to really bring researchers,
government and private sector to discuss
how we can use AI to solve many of the
big problems, the big challenges of the
world in healthcare, in education, in
agriculture. Uh and so that platform
which is quite unique multistakeholder
platform uh grew from 2017 to today. Um
we expect this year from 8 to 11 July in
Geneva to uh have about 10,000
participants including heads of state,
ministers, uh seale executives from
governments and the top researchers and
big names on AI from uh Joshua Benjio to
Yan Lakun uh Jeffrey Hinton and many
many other experts on AI.
Wow. Um so
uh 60 years uh of uh evolution and it's
come down to one of the most
transformative technologies as you said
in 2017
u there's a lot to unpack there uh Dr.
Musi but let me ask you uh how did you
come up with the name AI for good uh
really
it sounds very very nice and you know
obviously the other side is there is AI
for bad too right u I think we wanted to
focus on the uh problem solving aspect
um AI for good for example
um when we had the conversation in the
summit of 2018
um there was a clear uh shortage of
doctors and nurses around the world. Um
and AI was starting to solve certain
diagnostics based on big data. And we
wanted with the health experts to uh we
launched a focus group to bring doctors
and uh data scientists to see how those
algorithms and solutions popping up on
smartphones and computers and so on uh
should be benchmarked to make sure that
the diagnostics or predictions they're
making uh can actually help people in
low income settings where they don't
have access to doctors and nurses and
hospitals. So uh an AI application could
actually save lives. Uh and that was one
example of uh reasons of of really
thinking of AI for good. Um another
example where uh in agriculture there is
possibilities of optimization of
resources, water, irrigation, um you
know uh fertilizers and and other
resources uh used. Um AI could be quite
powerful with the internet of things
with sensors in the ground and um drones
taking pictures satellite imaging. Uh
lots of data that can come and help in
the crop production. Uh that's another
good example. Um another third example
is in the area of um disaster
management, natural hazards. when you
have lots of satellite images, you have
uh forecast data
uh IoT devices planted around countries
in areas that are usually sensitive uh
to various earthquakes or uh rainfall or
or fires, wildfires. uh having that data
early on and having machine learning and
AI uh applied to that data uh could save
hundreds thousands of lives because you
can predict those natural hazards and
detect them way earlier than by
traditional means. Then you can use AI
to target the populations that need to
get the early warning. And again, this
is an example of good use of AI. And so
back to your question, we saw many big
challenging problems that AI now is
possible or back then in 2017 and we saw
the rapid evolution over the past eight
years that AI is capable of solving real
problems and and helping save lives.
No, that's incredible. Uh you talked
about many very very important
applications. Uh Dr. and I want to kind
of follow up on them because they're of
big interest to me personally but to our
audience. So you talked about the
healthc care um
work uh that is possible where you're
giving access through machine learning
and data to people in many many uh
different areas. So you talked about you
know AI powered diagnostics. Now you've
done a partnership with uh WH and WIPO.
How are you uh what is the genesis of
those partnerships and how are you
setting international benchmarks and
what impact are you seeing in healthcare
delivery particularly you know when you
go into some areas uh rural or lower
income uh countries maybe they have
lower resource uh settings so tell our
audience a little bit about uh the
impact that you're seeing on this Dr.
Great. Yeah, indeed. As part of the 2018
summit, we launched this focus group
with WHO uh and then Whitewood joined us
to really bring doctors and and data
scientists together uh to curate the
data uh collected, annotated on
different use cases, different diseases.
um and then test those algorithms that
are being used to help in the diagnostic
and to benchmark them to see if they're
really um accurate or not based on the
medical expertise. uh what we learned
from that focus group which is
multiddisciplinary is many of these AI
problems need to have the subject matter
expert in this case doctors nurses and
so on and the data scientists and
bringing them together uh agreeing on
the taxonomy agreeing on the ethical use
of the data agreeing on the regulatory
frameworks because Europe has its own
regulatory framework for introducing new
devices and tools in the healthcare se
sector the US uh the FDA has its own
rules So different countries have their
own traditional regulation of the
healthcare sector and now you introduce
a new element of using AI in that uh
space and so we had a lot of
participation from the healthcare
regulators from the US, Europe, India uh
really around the world. Um and then the
center of this exercise uh was on how do
we find the data, collect it, curate it
uh so that you can uh do those
inferences and and run the algorithms on
the data and that was probably the
biggest challenge initially es
especially in low setting countries. Um
the data is not being collected. There
are no medical health records.
uh uh the um health care system is
fragmented is not connected uh the
patients are not necessarily connected
still we have 2.6 six billion people who
are not connected to the internet today.
So the focus of that five-year journey
with who was to identify a number of use
cases, go around the world and have
meetings sometimes in New York,
sometimes in Tanzania, uh sometimes in
India to really bring the expertise and
and the awareness of the need to collect
the data and have the framework around
it. And now after those five years in
2023 we launched this global initiative
on AI for health with WHO and WIPO to
implement something like 36 reports and
use cases uh in in every country around
the world and the participation of those
countries is critical. I mean we need
who has um people on the ground uh we
have these seminars to transfer
knowledge. A few weeks ago, for example,
we was in one of the seminars here in
Geneva and the minister of Rwanda, the
health minister was a speaker in the in
the breakfast on some of the exemplar
solutions and Rwanda was one of the
countries there where the data is being
collected. They had a coder academy. So
they brought the youth that have coding
experience to uh write machine learning
applications that are customized to the
local data to the local languages and to
the local local context in Rwanda. and
he spoke on how this framework that was
developed jointly uh was helping Rwanda
in implementing um healthcare
applications or AI for health uh to help
in the low uh resource settings where
they don't have hospitals and and um any
institutions for people to go to but
they might have uh applications and tele
medicine to help those uh those
patients.
So that's u I think that's very very
important. Uh Dr. Jamusi, do you think a
time will come when
uh a kid in Rwanda in a village or in
Tanzania or in India or any or in
Morocco or any of these places
has a you know a lowcost uh phone um in
their palm and has access to worldclass
health care at least from a diagnostic
simple general practitioner internal
medicine kind of thing. that is what
we're working towards. Uh it is still a
challenge as I mentioned 40% of Africa
is not connected especially women. Yeah.
And so that is an area that ITU is
committed to connecting the world. We
have many programs partner to connect uh
where we're trying to get industry
industry players in the private sector
to commit and make pledges. We're about
70 billion on a 100red billion
trajectory by 2030. uh our secretary
general has been a champion of this
partner to connect initiative. Uh we
have another initiative with UNICEF to
connect schools. It's called Giga. Uh
and so these initiatives of connectivity
provide that basic framework, the basic
building block towards using AI and
applications. And so um uh we we have a
journey a long journey ahead of us but
we're also encouraged by the u
commitment we're seeing from governments
and private sector uh in in connecting
in uh collecting data in curating that
data and and applying it and having more
coders around the world. uh an area that
is clearly a big gap for us is the AI
skills and that's why in Davos uh this
January we launched the AI skills
coalition and we are pleased to have
today 50 partners uh including some of
the big private sector players like
Microsoft and Amazon Web Services and
Cognizant and these partners are
providing free courses uh we have about
70 free courses in multiple languages
Um, and the courses range from AI for
kids to AI for diplomats. So, we're
trying to provide as many free courses
and certification so that people can get
skilled up on AI. And it's important at
the highest level of government to have
ministers who are aware of the levers
that AI can give them and what would be
required in their country to be able to
take advantage of this AI fastm moving
revolution. Uh and it's also important
for kids to grow up with AI in mind.
That's why for example we launched the
um AI uh youth robotics competition uh
where we target 8 to 18 years old uh to
really implement AI solutions while
playing uh to to learn all of those AI
skills to program the robots and win
some of the challenges. uh in India we
had like 200 kids during last year in
October. It was fascinating to see them
all program these robots uh to target
certain natural hazard solutions. Um so
these are some of the things that we're
doing to answer your question. Will we
see a day where every kid around the
world have solutions on on their um uh
in in their smartphone? uh it is
challenging but we have to put all of
these pieces in place to get there. Um
another area we are focused on is the
universities and academic research
institutes. In many countries they don't
have big industrial and uh private
sector uh companies producing new
solutions but there is a strong
university research. there are
professors and students and there we
targeted uh that audience by creating a
number of machine learning challenges.
uh we have 100 learning challenges uh
done so far uh 10,000 developers mostly
from developing countries um that worked
on different AI solutions and these
could be from machine learning for 5G
networks to tiny machine learning for
weather prediction um different problem
settings and then we give them about
three months they compete and the
winners get a monetary award and then
get to be invited to the AI forgot
summit in Geneva to really be able to
get that exposure for their
intelligence, hard work and uh
dedication to create something quite
unique and and powerful. uh they get
also access to Amazon web service
compute platform because in many of
these low-inccome countries they don't
have the data centers and the compute
platform to be able to really try uh
different machine learning algorithms
but if they win the competition they get
access to these compute resources and
that provided this crowdsourced
innovation at a global scale. Um the
innovation factory is another uh program
we have to targetmemes and startups.
Again in many countries you may not have
the big players on AI but you have a lot
ofmemes and startups creating AI
applications. Um and so we have been
launching these innovation factories
where startups do a pitching competition
and so far we've had hundreds of
startups in 40 countries and after they
pitch those winners are brought to
Geneva at the AI for good summit they
meet investors they meet big companies
um they meet other ministers from other
countries uh and then they are able to
scale their solutions and be able to
grow rapidly um and that gives those
young innovators around the world and
ability to scale with AI.
Wow. I mean
u that's a lot. I mean we could have
like 10 episodes on each activity but
I'll just quickly uh try to summarize
and correct me if I'm not uh if I'm
mistaken. Obviously on health care you
think the journey has begun where there
will be overtime access to u basic
health care for everybody. As you said,
connectivity is a big issue still with
large part still not on the internet,
but and you talked about skills and
you're working heavily on skills um
training with young people um across the
board and you're working on innovation
and innovation factories and you're
doing the startup competitions and
providing even cloud uh uh you know
services to uh the winners and some of
them are going to be at this uh uh
conference for AI good the winners. ers
will be there. So
that's a lot of uh incredible work that
you're doing just at a foundation level
because yes, you're high up there in
terms of you know working on uh
initiatives uh for health care with the
WHO but you're working at the foundation
level. um in terms of um you know you
talked a little bit about um
uh you know the climate change and some
of the work that you have done on there.
You have partnered with WO and UN to
integrate uh AI into early warning
systems for climate resilience.
Uh can you give some examples of how AI
is being used to predict floods,
landslides and wildfires? Especially uh
I'm in the US. We've had a big issue in
California as you know and it's now a
recurring issue about wildfires. And
what real world impact do you think uh
some of these things can have on our on
communities around the world?
With the pleasure. We had this focus
group on AI for natural disaster
management. uh it worked for a number of
years produced many reports one of them
was published in nature magazine uh and
it's it's very difficult to publish in
nature magazine uh also in time magazine
uh early this year or I think December
last year we had an article on how these
AI for natural disaster management save
lives in cities uh to your uh question
we have an example of a landslide
prediction in India uh it was a project
driven by uh Manipal Institute of
Technology. Uh it used AI to predict
landslides. Uh the project was developed
to really deal with a problem that this
community was facing. Uh it was based on
a lot of data collection from satellite
imaging from IoT devices. Um and it
allowed for an early detection. uh and
these maps were really helping the local
authorities take preventive action
before the landslides would occur. uh so
that's one concrete example in India. We
have other examples of landslide
prediction in Ecuador uh and wild life
fires in uh in China, in Portugal, uh in
in different areas around the world. And
um and thanks to this great work that
was done by the focus group bringing
again uh the metrology experts and the
data experts and the environment experts
to uh bring a massive amount of data and
then create these machine learning
algorithms to train on the data to be
able to solve these problems. And then
at the end the book end of it once you
detect it then you need to early warn
people. And so we have this early
warning for all initiative with WMO uh
under the UNSG's umbrella um to really
use the common alerting protocol which
is a standard from ITU uh and different
channels to target the right audience
because you don't want to send the wrong
alarm you know people don't trust it
after that so you need to target exactly
the population that would be impacted
and um share with them the information
in multilingual
and multi- channelannel form,
smartphones, feature phones, the web,
um, etc. Uh, sell broadcast etc.
No, that's fantastic. Um, Dr. Food
security as you know is another critical
area. How is the collaboration that you
have with FAO supporting things like
precision farming and what role do you
think AI can play in sustainable
agriculture?
So um on the food side we had a focus
group with the food and agriculture
organization based in Rome and we had uh
good and agriculture experts with data
experts uh and they worked together on
uh really how to transform agriculture
by enabling datadriven decision- making
and the datadriven decision- making was
looking at resource use optimization uh
forecasting uh and The data was coming
from the soil through internet of
things. It was coming from drones from
satellite imaging. Uh also if you see
that the crop uh there is a disease in
the crop before acres and acres go bad
as soon as that crop disease is is
detected uh the appropriate measures are
taken and farmers are equipped and
enabled to to deal with those diseases
way earlier than um uh than you know
losing the the entire crop. So this ITU
FAO U focus group developed again a
number of reports and use cases and
training material to equip the
agriculture ministries and agencies
around the world on how AI could be used
to help them and help increase the crop
production uh reduce uh resource use and
really bring prosperity to the um
agriculture sector. Uh today we're
looking at uh after this focus group has
concluded at launching a global
initiative on AI for agriculture sort of
similar to the path we had with the WHO
and WIPO on AI for health.
Well that's good. Uh
Dr. Musi you're also working on the
quantum for good. How do you see quantum
computing? A lot of our listeners are
very interested in quantum computing.
How do you see inter uh the quantum
computing intersecting with AI for
social uh impact and what potential do
you see in this emerging field? So AI
needs data and compute and uh needs
massive amount of data, large data
centers. We're hearing today every day
new investments in data centers around
the world. And that's great because you
need to store the data and process it.
But to process it you need massive
computing platforms. Uh one traditional
way is today you just have thousands and
thousands of GPUs uh graphic processing
unit. Uh in the future the idea is to
use quantum computers which are um
different from the normal computers.
They're quite powerful uh and they're
evolving rapidly to be able to solve uh
different problems that AI would have to
solve. Um and that's why at this AI for
good summit we have a quantum for good
track where we're bringing a number of
quantum computers big and small portable
and non-portable uh to really see how we
advance using quantum computers in the
AI space uh to save energy to save space
because one quantum computer could be
replacing thousands of GPUs uh and also
the energy use the water resources used
to cooling the data centers and the
compute platforms. So it's not for
tomorrow but it is evolving rapidly and
that's why in the same way that we
launched AI for good in 2017 we see this
year as perhaps the the year of quantum
as you know it's the uh UN year of
quantum uh is a is a is a year that we
need to launch the quantum for good and
really encourage the community the
multistakeholder community of
governments of private sector of
researchers civil society to come
together and see how quantum can help us
solve many of these problems in a more u
energyefficient
faster uh uh process time than than
usual and we have a lot of standards
underpinning this work whether it's for
AI or for quantum for example in the ITU
we have about 400 AI related technical
standards published by our experts our
experts meaning this this thousand
private sector entities and 194
countries. Um in the quantum space for
quantum key distribution for example we
have some 40 standards published by the
ITU. So we see this the standard setting
exercise by our multistakeholder
community as the foundation for AI and
for quantum.
So uh Dr. Musi just to follow up on a
very important point you made. You have
uh you know you hold I think 23 patents
and you worked with over 90 standard uh
making bodies. Tell our listeners why do
you believe that international standards
are essential for trustworthy AI
development. Why is it uh relevant for
our audience? Let's take an example that
is not AI that is used at scale today.
We all use the internet. those
telecommunication networks and that
information and the communication we
have is secured by a protocol developed
35 years ago by the ITU the public key
infrastructure. It's a cyber security
protocol that enhances the security and
protects the information flow. Um having
that standard
uh allows global use every device around
the world when it's implementing that
standard you have interoperability and
you have the assurance that that
protocol is secure and providing the
safety that is needed. Now if we go to
the AI space, we have same you know diff
we have parallels to this um this need.
We need standards for interoperability.
We need standards for assurance and once
we have standards then we can test them.
we can test the implementation against
the standard and and ensure that those
protocols and solutions being used in
the AI space adhere to the same
principles of the nonAI space like the
cyber security I just mentioned um for
example let's say uh deep fakes deep
fakes you know AI generated images
text that is not true uh it's very easy
to do today you can just use offtheshelf
software and generate a video myself
talking with you. That did not really
happen. Um, so last year at the AI for
good, we had an AI governance dialogue
day and deep fakes were cited by all
ministers present from developed and
developing countries as a real problem
because last year was a big election
year in 70 countries around the world.
Um and so the idea was how
uh can we use standards to enable the
policymaker to have certain guidelines
either nationally or globally on uh
combating deep fakes. And so uh that
dialogue resulted in the creation of a
collaboration between ITU, one of the
three international standards
organizations, ISO and IEC, our two
partners in the world standards
cooperation here based in Geneva. And we
reached out the internet engineering
task force to the uh inter the ITE the
institute of electrical and electronics
engineers and other partners working in
the space to um collaborate on providing
all of the standards available today to
do watermarking as a solution where you
can authenticate the multimedia. So we
have a multimedia authenticity uh
standards uh collaboration. We have got
policy guidelines and then communication
because the communication is for the
policy maker to know what exists in
terms of standards and the communication
is to the end user so that people in
social media don't immediately uh think
that everything they're seeing is true.
So there is this educational su piece uh
that
an awareness raising for the end user to
know that everything they see is not
really necessarily true uh and that
there there are tools to provide
authenticity measures of what they're
seeing. Um that is an example where
international standards and
interoperability help us uh ensure trust
in what we're using trust in the AI,
trust in the uh information and
communication systems which is critical
for people to be able to use AI and
trust the use of AI uh to have these
underpinning standards and guidance.
So um Dr. Um as a follow on to this for
our listeners I think what he's saying
is standards really uh build a level of
trust but also build a level of
interoperability if you are a company
you know you don't have to deal with
multiple multiple different standards so
as a follow on um Dr. Jabusi um coming
to deep fakes do you think uh because
there are u many folks who say that you
can uh watermarking is not a 100%
foolproof solution because uh there are
challenges to that uh and as you said 70
countries had uh elections and we saw
the use of deep fakes whether it was in
the US and uh other countries also but
do you think deep fakes are a solution
for uh sorry watermarking is a solution
solution for deep fakes. It's one of the
solutions. It's not the only solution.
Uh there is also techniques of using AI
to detect uh deep fake because uh AI
could compare um AI generated videos to
many other data points of uh videos on
the internet or other videos generated
by the real videos that were recorded
and identify anomalies between the deep
fakes and and the real image or video.
So um using AI itself as a tool to
combat defects is one of the uh tools in
the toolkit. Uh we will be launching
this report at the AI for good global
summit 8 to 111 July. Uh this was the
work of the collaboration with ISO and
IEC over a year. Uh and we really
benchmarked all of the standards that
exist today. Uh we will be launching
this paper. It was one of the
deliverables we promised the world last
year when we launched this
collaboration. So water marking using AI
open- source techniques. So there are
many uh quite a number of solutions
depending on the media you're using uh
text image video uh etc in terms of how
to authenticate.
Well that's uh great. We'll be looking
forward to that report because that is a
big concern. Uh following up on the
issue of standards and regulation. Um
Dr. Jabusi um as you know the there is
an EU AI act in the US. We don't have
and we are not going to I have a lot of
senators, members of Congress,
administration folks come in. We US is
not going to have uh comprehensive AI
regulation. So you know for companies
especially small companies who have to
deal with different different sets of
regulations around the world do you
think standards might be the way to go
because I have a lot of entrepreneurs
who come in uh on our show and say hey
uh innovation versus regulation or
standards there is that thing uh what do
you think is the answer innovation
uh the balance between innovation and
regulation.
Yeah, I think the AI space is moving
really fast and that's why in the
dialogue last year, uh there was a word
of caution from a lot of the
participants not to overregulate AI
because it's changing so fast you cannot
really regulate it yet. However, as you
mentioned, there was a call to, you
know, develop international standards
that can can serve at as guard rails uh
but also to continue this to have this
multistakeholder dialogue. Many
developing countries don't have a
national strategy on AI and it's
important to have those ministers around
to the table so that they don't
necessarily overreact and uh block AI or
overregulate AI. Um so having this
multistakeholder and multi- um
developmental um if if that's a is a
word different development stages of the
countries meet with each other and share
information uh allows us to um have the
right amount of regulation based on what
we know today in terms of standards guid
guidelines etc. uh and that's this year
we have another dialogue uh AI
governance dialogue day on the uh 10th
of July where we continue this
conversation but we're very pleased to
have heads of states participate this
year in the dialogue and this really
demonstrates how critical and how
important to have this dialogue and this
dialogue cannot be among governments
alone it must have the private sector
because those companies are the ones
developing uh these new algorithms
curating the data um and providing these
new applications to the world and having
them around the table is critical. It's
also important to have the uh thought
leaders, the researchers uh on AI be
part of the conversation to have the
civil society and the UN partners. We
have 47 UN partners in the ITU uh who
are invited to the AI for good and will
be part of the conversation because as
we talk today we have WHO for health and
FAO for agriculture. the WMO for
metrology. So different areas of uh the
good of the world is really in the hands
of many agencies. We need to have them
all around the table. So uh in short, AI
is moving fast.
uh it's hard to regulate something
moving this fast but it's important to
agree on some principles to have some
guard rails and to develop the
international standards to help the
policy makers navigate um this fastm
moving uh challenge
so u have guard rails uh keep innovation
going I think that's what Dr. Jabus is
saying um but think to our listeners
think about what they have achieved
bringing so many stakeholders across
countries uh across entrepreneurs across
civil society etc. It is definitely to
me the conference that exists. Um
one of the questions u that comes up uh
when we have guests u on the show Dr.
Shabusi is that you there is this thing
now called sovereign AI where vendors
are pushing every country should have
their own AI. Now every country does not
have the resources small countries
because as you said AI needs data it
needs the compute power whether it's
GPUs etc and then it needs the skills.
what what is your message for what are
your thoughts uh about sovereign AI in
every country whether it's small,
mediumsiz or big having their own and
where do you see this thing kind of
playing out? I think the answer to that
really I mean the final decision is the
hands and of the member states who have
a sovereign uh decision on how they want
to implement AI but practically speaking
um we still have 2.6 6 billion
unconnected. So just the basic network
connectivity is not there. Uh to think
of sovereign AI where you have to deploy
data centers and deploy massive compute
platforms that need stable energy um
that need massive fiber optic
connectivity um is is a big investment.
Our um digital infrastructure investment
report shows a need of $1.6 trillion
around the world to fill that gap. So um
it could be a long-term strategy but
pragmatically and immediately only a
handful of countries can um can really
deploy sovereign AI and have their data
centers and have the data hosted in
their country. Um so if we wait that
long I think countries will miss the
boat in using AI. Um and so there has to
be a pragmatic look at this question. uh
what's I think more is more important
than what we have seen in many of these
focus groups is many countries in low
and medium income uh settings are not
collecting the data in a digital form
and if you don't have the data whether
it's healthcare or agriculture or
education or any data any vertical that
we want to target if you don't have the
data having a sovereign data center
doesn't I mean it's the next step so
first I think it's important start
collecting the data um being able to um
um annotate it and run machine learning
algorithms to test it locally uh empower
the startup ecosystem and thememes in
the country. I think that's a more
pragmatic and more uh would have a much
better return on investment uh than just
you know the big iron data centers and
compute in every country.
Uh I think some very important points
that you made uh Dr. obviously that
collect the data, get digital um build
machine learning skills uh and then uh
move on to the next stage. Um I think
that's a a very very good point for our
listeners who are thinking of sovereign
AI. Uh on a fun note uh from what I
understand uh AI for good believes AI is
not just a tool for engineers but also a
canvas for artists. uh can you explain
to our audience who are not always uh
you know machine learning experts why do
you invite AI powered artists, musicians
and performers to the summit because uh
they we want it to be a much broader
platform. So Dr. Busy please explain to
our audience. Yes, art is a big part of
our lives and uh generative AI is
capable of creating music, creating
movies, uh creating text, pros and so
on, poetry. Um so like every other
profession is being augmented by AI. I
think the art sector and the artists are
also uh augmenting their skills with AI.
And so instead of having an adversarial
view of AI and art, we wanted to invite
artists that are leveraging AI to have
new creative um deliveries, whether it's
music or videos or images. And uh really
since the inception of AI for Good,
we've had always artists in the in the
show. They lighten the mood. They show
how AI could be used in an artistic
setting. uh and we're very pleased that
many artists will be uh joining us to to
showcase their uh creation that is
augmented with AI.
That's fantastic. Uh anything else uh uh
that you want to talk uh about the
summit that's coming up which I think
it's going to be just incredible with so
many heads of states, entrepreneurs,
artists. Um anything else that you would
like to communicate to the audience?
Absolutely. There is 1 billion people
with disabilities around the world. AI
has demonstrated an amazing power to
help those people with disability
communicate and move, walk, listen, uh
see. Uh so you will see more demos this
year of AI assisting people with
disabilities. Last year we had uh one of
the participants do a tweet uh through a
brain machine interface.
uh and President Macron retweeted it and
it be went viral during AI for good
summit. So this year we'll have many
more demos on how AI can help people
with different disabilities be able to
um be more engaged and have more
communication and and be able to move
and and and engage in the society more
effectively. Uh another new thing beyond
brain machine interface that we will
have this year is uh autonomous driving.
Flying cars uh will be part of the AI
for good. We have different uh
autonomous uh drive driving cars that
will be part of the show on the show
floor. Flying cars uh some will be used
around the city. So um it's quite
exciting how robotics in all forms of
robotics uh empowered or powered by AI
is helping us in different aspects of
life and it will all be showcased at AI
for good in Geneva 8 to 11 July.
Wow.
My god. Uh
you Dr. Chamusi, you've got flying cars,
you got autonomous vehicles, you got
most importantly this forum on
disabilities as you said it it can
change it is changing the lives of
people who really had so many issues
whether it's uh you know the brainchip
uh platform that you talked about uh
etc. But it seems like uh Jamusi you put
Davos and CES together in one platform
of bringing thought leaders and
innovation and wow it's going to be
fantastic. Uh really looking forward to
that. Dr. Shamusi we've taken a lot of
your time but towards the end we
generally end with a little fun uh
one-word lightning round questions. You
ready for our audience? Sure. Okay. One
word answers.
biggest AI opportunity
uh healthcare
biggest AI risk
uh lack of standards
uh in your view what is the most
underrated AI application
I think the AI for health applications
um are most underrated
okay uh AI regulation should they be
global or national both
most important AI principle
um I think data is the key part of AI
without data we cannot talk about AI I
knew you would say that uh future of
work with AI augmentation
and key to responsible AI
it's uh responsible AI is key and
testing AI will enable us testing based
standards will give us that trust in AI.
Dr. Mus this has been an absolutely
enlightening
for me and I'm sure for our listeners
conversation the you know the amazing
work that you're doing your combination
of you know your technical expertise
with uh you know uh so many p 23 patents
experience with 90 standards bodies
diplomatic skills but just the the scale
of work because a lot of people uh I can
tell you Dr. are not even aware of what
all is being done. So to our listen to
our listeners, I really encourage you to
learn more about what Dr. Jamos and what
AI forgood is doing at AI
forgood.itu.int
and consider that how the listeners can
contribute to uh what they are doing to
and also to the responsible AI
development in your own communities and
organizations. The work that Dr. Jamusi
and his team are doing is showing us
that with the right standards, right
partnerships and inclusive approaches,
AI can truly be a force for good. So Dr.
Jamusi, thank you for joining us on the
regulating AI podcast and for your
tireless work in making AI serve
humanity's greatest needs like health
care, agriculture, climate change, food
security, but while maintaining the
highest standards of safety and
responsibility. We look forward to
seeing you and all of this at the for
good uh summit in Geneva. Dr. Jamusi,
thanks so much for being on the podcast.
Thank you Sanjay and thanks to your
listeners for listening to us today.
[Music]
