Rather than look at large language
models, we should be focusing in on
specialist language models that go much
deeper into cultural history, language
dialects, uh you know, particularly for
countries where they have different
regions even within their sovereign
boundaries where they have different
regions and different even different
dialects of their own language and and
that's and some of that should be open
source if not all of it.
>> Welcome to the regulating EI podcast
with Sanjay Puri. AI is changing the
world faster than rules can keep up. So,
how do we protect people without killing
progress? Each week, Sanjay brings you
inside conversations with global
leaders, policy makers, and innovators
who are wrestling with that exact
question. So, if you're curious about
the future of technology and how it's
governed, you're in the right place.
On today's podcast, we're thrilled to
welcome Dr. Nick Bradshaw, founder of
the South African Artificial
Intelligence Association, creator of AI
Expo Africa and a key member of South
Africa's National AI Strategy Working
Group. He's seen AI from the boardrooms
of global north to the innovation hubs
of the global south and is on a mission
to make Africa not just a consumer but a
co-creator of AI's future.
>> Nick, welcome to the Regulating AI
podcast. It's an absolute pleasure to
have you with us.
>> Well, thanks very much for having me,
Sanjay, and and a lovely introduction.
Sort of making me blush there a bit, but
um yeah, it's great to be here and um
you know, and and thanks for reaching
out um in the run-up to what we're doing
with the UNITU in the first AI for good
impact Africa summit. And it's great to
make a contribution to your podcast,
>> Nick. We have a global audience. uh we
have policy leaders um we have think
tank experts we have entrepreneurs and
just people who are interested and
fascinated in AI since we talked about
the AI expo and we're just uh you know
on the verge of having it and the ITU uh
relationship that you have created can
you just tell our audience a little bit
about uh what's coming up uh who's
attending and what's going on what's so
special about this?
>> Yeah, thanks Sanjay. Well, I mean, yeah,
just stepping back a little bit, I mean,
we've been working at promoting and
understanding the African AI landscape
since 2017. One of the reasons for doing
that was that there wasn't any data
really talking about the the ecosystem,
you know, how many companies are out
there in how many countries, um how big
are they, you know, what size companies
are out there, how long they've been
trading for. So the origins of what
we've been doing here was really
formulated from the absence of data and
actually filling that gap. And along the
way we've created AI Expo Africa as a
show. We've uh published uh a magazine
called Signaps to showcase the the
African AI innovation story.
uh we published the state of AI in
Africa report uh which brought all that
information together and we actually
launched that with the UNITU
and that served as a benchmark from
around 2021 for us to then measure how
the ecosystem has grown to the point
where postcoid the conversation has been
very much around the global north and
the global south becoming much closer
together when it comes to sharing
knowledge and best practice on AI
regulation responsib ible AI um and as
you mentioned uh you know there's a lot
of actors that are working in this space
and it's still very emergent and and the
Africa region you as you as you rightly
say doesn't necessarily just simply want
to be a consumer it wants to be a
contributor and to build its own uh
ecosystem its own frameworks its own
models so I I think you know your
audience probably think well hang on a
minute you you sound like a British guy
what what the hell are you doing in in
Africa well uh along the way I met a
South African ing we got married and
I've been here 16 years and you know
Africa South Africa is my home and I'm
very passionate about us uh joining
forces at all levels government NGO
business investor startup academic and
seeing how we can make this a big
success uh and and a and a technology
that will will bring change in a
positive way.
>> No, that's uh great uh to have this kind
of perspective uh for our audience. Uh
Nick, you know uh the global AI current
global AI narrative is dominated by the
US, China and Europe in some ways. Tell
our audience what unique role do you see
I mean we talked about consumer but
unique role you see Africa especially
South Africa playing in the global uh AI
conversation.
>> First of all there has to be an
understanding of of the true size of
Africa and then the AI ecosystem that's
within it. So uh I think Africa is a
geography just for the audience. You can
fit in North America, China, India, uh
South America, you know, it's a much
bigger geography than perhaps people
realize, but actually across the whole
of the continent, the number of
companies with a declared specialism in
AI is about the same as the total number
of companies in the state of California.
So when you have a very large geography
and a and a very spread out ecosystem
um you know it's important to understand
just where where where is all this stuff
concentrated. So the research that we've
done um shows that you know 94% of the
ecosystem is in just 20 countries or
roughly 20 countries in the main with
the other 6% spread very thinly across
the rest. So South Africa is sort of
number one in terms of number of
companies but um you know Nigeria is
giving us a good run for the money. So I
think it's it's not just really about
the role South Africa can play um in
this landscape. It's about what all the
countries can play. Um I mean we've had
a massive success on the continent with
the startup called Instadep which came
um from the from the founder Karen Bear
and his partners. um you know recently
acquired by a German life sciences
company for you know a considerable sum
of money and it it's it's a very untold
very successful story uh which has
emerged from one of the smallest
countries on the continent. So from
north to south uh sorry north to south
and east to west there's a lot of
innovation going on but it's often
hidden or the story remains very
localized and and we don't see that same
breakout that that you see with maybe
companies from North America or China or
Singapore or London or Paris. So um so
there's a lot of innovation going on a
lot of the hard problems um which are
being looked at are being solved not
only just by entrepreneurs but also by
academics in research so I think we
there's a very healthy ecosystem uh but
it's very spread out and so when we're
looking at that we we have to bear that
in mind uh it's not the same as you know
France or it's not the same as Canada u
it is what it is uh here in in our
region so I think South Africa clearly
has a role to play. Um, but as do the
other 53 countries as well.
>> A lot of our audience doesn't know the
African ecosystem. So, I'm going to ask
you a few questions that'll maybe help
dispel that. So, one of the questions uh
that came in from our audience was that
AI development requires massive
computational resources, you know, data
centers, infrastructure. So how can uh
African nations participate meaningfully
in AI development when they're competing
against countries spending billions in
AI compute? Is there a different path
for Africa as a leader within that
region? You know someone who is you know
kind of built the ecosystem tell our
audience how can what is the path for
Africa here?
>> Well the number one the path is
collaboration. Uh I don't think there
are any largecale AI initiatives that
are happening without some form of
collaboration. Um collaboration might
mean that you've got thousands and
thousands of users in a in a on a
platform. Uh you know we have almost
4,000 members of our association. Um but
collaboration is key and you no single
entity has all the answers and no single
entity has all the money. So we have to
collaboratively work together and
collaboratively invest in that.
It's absolutely true that on the African
continent there isn't as much
infrastructure as we might see in
America. um mainly because there isn't
the concentration of capital and also
the number of companies but there are uh
the hyperscalers are investing in the
region uh with with data centers from
the likes of uh Microsoft uh Google uh
Amazon IBM and I think also we're
starting to see uh interest coming in
then from the the second tier players
where you know they're the the companies
like Tero
um Equinex
um you know NT that they are also
building data center infrastructure now
within those capabilities and facilities
do they have AI compute uh some of them
do um some of them don't or they're in
the process of putting it in the most
recent announcement has been from the
cassava group um about building five AI
factories across the continent with the
first one here in South Africa so whilst
again it the landscape is slightly
sparse class it there is that
foundational infrastructure there but
it's just not as ubiquitous and
available as it is um say in the in the
global north. So again, if if you are an
AI entrepreneur,
uh you you're definitely going to have
to collaborate uh either with a
hyperscaler or sort of tier 2 provider
um and and look at mechanisms of you
know jumping into things like the Nvidia
inception program, jumping into the AWS
program or the Microsoft program or the
Google program where you can access
compute and have credits for your
entrepreneurial endeavor. Google
recently made some investments into some
of the academic institutions uh on the
continent that are doing things like
language research. So so we're beginning
to see that investment coming in but
it's it it's happening in pockets uh but
and it's not universal across the whole
continent obviously.
>> Mhm. So uh I think your message to our
listeners is collaboration is definitely
a key. So just following up on that
point, uh Nick, uh I'm based here in
Washington and AI has become uh is
increasingly becoming a geopolitical
lever, you know. So in
keep keeping that in perspective, where
does Africa fit in this new AI world
order? Could it risk becoming a data
colony potentially for global tech
powers if regulation is not uh thought
through? Just your feedback on uh some
of these points, Nick.
>> That's a good question, Sanjay. I mean,
I've just been at the G20. I was on a
couple of panels and networking with the
uh the people that were working quite
hard and diligently in the background.
But I think for people that uh don't
know how these events work, uh it's a
lot of people in a room locked together
working to reach consensus, which at the
political level is very difficult to do
obviously. So I'm not a politician and
I'm not a diplomat, but I I'm definitely
a pragmatist and a realist. So I think
um
data sovereignty I think is where really
we need to focus the discussion. You
know, the best will in the world. We're
not going to create another chip
manufacturer uh that's making GP u uh
GPUs for example. The the volumes of
money involved to do that are are just
astronomically high. And you know I I
think I always tend to try and use the
pen analogy. Um you you can buy any pen,
but it's the story you write that
counts. Okay? It's the data that comes
out of the pen that's the most important
thing. So don't try and reinvent the
pen. just be clever what you do with
your story and and so I think data
sovereignty sovereign AI is is the big
topic right now. Um that has to sit then
within a regulatory
um framework which are still emerging.
Um South African national government for
example is about to publish its AI
national AI policy this this month is
going forward for cabinet approval. So
again, I think we're still at that kind
of tipping point between having this
debate and then getting into that detail
of okay, we we accept that we might not
be investing and owning the
infrastructure. Although in some cases
we do certainly um for the hyperscalers
and the tier 2 investors that are doing
that. But it's the data that sits in
those facilities and the models that
will sit in those facilities where we
where we can be smarter and and agile
around ownership
um and what we do with that data and
those models. So I think that's what's
going to dominate the debate in in our
region. I know that the at the macro
level if you look at like the European
Union you know multi-country regulatory
framework um there is talk of that at
the African Union level although I'm not
cited on on the progress they they are
looking at a an African Union national
AI
um strategy but I think it will be down
to the individual countries to then
formulate what what they do in their own
sovereign uh borders. Um so so I think
that's kind of where the debate is and
when I've been in various panels and
conferences particularly this year that
that's been the main cut and thrust of
the discussion.
So Nick I think you make a a great point
data sovereignty is very very critical.
Just to follow up on that point uh most
of a large number of AI systems are
often trained on western centric data
sets. when you look um at African
societies
uh how do we ensure that African
languages, values
um you know cultures and histories and
lived realities are represented in these
AI systems uh which is you know a danger
in some ways. We have a big focus in the
region here na naturally around looking
at language research for the
enabilization if that's even a word uh
of uh languages across the continent and
and the models to support them. Uh
there's a couple of initiatives which
are active across the continent. Um
there are 2,000 languages if not and and
way more dialects uh across the region
and many of them don't have uh a
language model to enable AI services to
to be leveraged you know text text to
text or text to speech and speech to
text. So that's a fundamental set of
projects which is going on at the
moment. Um Masakarn project is is the
big one. It's a multi- research,
multi-disiplinary
uh approach to uh language research. Um
so I I I think that again we're still
building those fundamental foundations
to enable these um capabilities to come
to well to to be birthed and to be
available to everyone. It was
interesting to hear also maybe there's a
change in trajectory with with some of
this work and it was interesting to hear
from the Spanish delegate delegate from
um at the G20 recently about this idea
that rather than look at large language
models, we should be focusing in on
specialist language models um that go
much deeper into cultural history uh
language dialects um uh uh you know
particularly for countries where they
have different regions even within their
sovereign um boundaries where they have
different regions and different even
different dialects of their own language
and and that's some of that should be
open source if not all of it. So I I I
think that was quite an interesting
observation to hear from the delegation
and and maybe that's also something we
we should also be looking at. Um you
know who who owns or who could monetize
or should we monetize that model or
should it be open to everybody? And the
panel I was on
um yesterday um was also thinking about
um
should all this be freely accessible to
people? I know I know that you can
there's an element of open source to
that. Um so so I think again we're in
this kind of bit of a melting pot
transition um in regard to this. So yeah
you know in the absence of standards as
well I mean we are working in an area
where there's uh minimal standards there
are frameworks and some of those
frameworks vary. So things like
responsible AI frameworks are emerging
all the time. So it's an interesting
space and it's changing every day.
>> Yeah it is uh definitely changing every
day. Uh Nick uh there has been a lot of
conversation about uh in the US and
around the world and we are seeing a lot
of job losses happening at least in the
US because of AI. Um and how do you
protect jobs especially in you know
developed economies. Uh two you know
there two worries here. One is in Africa
where unemployment is also an issue. How
do you balance innovation while you
protect livelihoods? And also the other
perspective is within South Africa a lot
of the uh talent is uh in many cases
moving abroad. So how can AI play a role
in making sure that the talent um stays
there and there not job losses per se?
And I know this is more a policy issue,
but you as an ecosystem builder, do you
have a perspective on that?
>> Yeah, I mean it's it is the uh debate of
our time, right? Um what what is AI
going to do for the world of work uh and
the world of jobs. Um there's certainly
some sectors that are of immediate risk.
So in the global north, if I I don't
really like using that phrase, but in in
in the more developed economies, they're
being quite ruthless about um economies
of scale or cost reductions where they
can automate certain aspects of their
operations. So things like um coders for
example, low-level coding. Um yeah,
we're seeing apparently in the news um
you know, jobs going in that uh that
segment. I I think the the most
vulnerable segment here in our region is
the things like call centers. So they
historically over the last sort of
decade or so we've seen quite a big
shift to Africa for labor to work in in
in uh you know skilled labor as well to
work in core centers um with English you
know language and multiple language
language localization.
Um, but as an AI advances beyond uh
human level responsivity,
then you can essentially have a call
center on a chip, if I can use that as a
kind of fairly simplistic analogy, and
just cut out the middleman. Um,
companies don't need to employ a call
center company to set up a call center
in another country. They can just import
the stack into their server and that's
it. You've got a call center. Now, will
that eliminate everybody in the loop? I
don't I don't think so. We are going to
need humans to supervise these uh
machine to human interactions, quality
um complex use cases. Um so I think that
here in our region where certain sectors
have seen this boom like BO call centers
that they are potentially at risk. Um
the flip side to that and and you
mentioned about people leaving is that
was definitely the fact precoid now
postcoid and the greater acceptance of
remote work and a better understanding
of the talent pool that's in the region.
So if you look at um the platform Zindi
Z I NDI
that platform has 88,000 machine
learning data scientists on it. Most of
them are from Africa and emerging
markets. You have the ability now to
become a highly skilled machine learning
engineer. You can work remotely from
home or from a you know a workspace
and you can earn a very good salary s
salary by local standards uh with a a
significant cost reduction on the same
resource say in say North America, USA
or Canada and there's a greater
acceptance that of those kinds of
customers having a remote team in
another country particularly in emerging
market. I think the postcoavid
dynamic has caused a slight shift there.
Now I don't have any hard facts to give
you hard numbers on that but certainly
there's a bigger incentive for people to
stay local um whilst there is the still
the the desire for people to to to
migrate and and and get a job elsewhere.
So yeah, it's an interesting dynamic.
Um, and there are sectors at risk, but
also the the recent research that came
out is showing that poorer demographics
in emerging markets are experimenting
more with this technology outside of
work than any other demographic and that
young people are are leading the charge
there. So, so again, I think this really
interesting post chat GBT
um LLM agentic space that we're in now
where actually young people could even
um take a lead and specifically a bit
like where Africa took a lead with
mobile uh electronic money that could be
something yeah particularly as AI moves
to mobile and the edge where we do
another leap frog. So, yeah, it's an
interesting time right now.
that Africa is a very young continent.
The demographics are really in favor of
Africa because there is this whole issue
uh especially in western societies or
global north about the demographic bomb
facing uh these societies. I think of
Africa offers that opportunity and as
you said when you look at mobile
payments you look at things like EMPA
and stuff like that they have done an
incredible job and I think Nick's kind
of talking to it the opportunities that
young people have and AI could have for
them. Nick, finally you are doing you
brought about this uh incredible
partnership between ITU and you know for
this AI for good Africa and then with
these AI expo Africa just briefly tell
our listeners how did this partnership
come about and for companies you know
you got all these big tech companies
coming in but there might be midsize
companies in Europe and Asia etc. why uh
this is your opportunity to tell them
why should they be coming to the AI expo
Africa and the AI for good impact
Africa. Uh tell them a little bit
finally for that.
>> I think we started this uh interview
with uh you know collaboration being
key. So I I attended the AI for good
global summit in Geneva in in 2019 and
and actually for me that was my first
exposure to this whole industry of AI
for good. I I didn't really know much
about it beforehand. When when I got to
the the conference and uh and met the
organizers, uh Fred Verer being the the
lead organizer now the head of strategy
at the ITU, um it it was amazing. It was
it was just amazing to see what what use
cases there were. Um some of the
fascinating use cases in health care,
caring for the elderly, disease, um
standards, solving hard problems. It was
it was really interesting. So I said
said to Fred and the team uh you know
we'd love to host something like this in
in in in our region. So they joined us
later that year at AR Expo Africa in
2019 which is our second show and we we
decided to try and work on this as a as
a goal but of course COVID occurred uh
shortly after. So things went on hold
and now finally this year 2025 we are
welcoming them to to our region to
Jannersburg at the end of Jul.
But also that that discussion has led
them to look at multiple outreach
programs in other regions of the world.
Uh I think China, India, South America.
Um so whilst this edition of what
they're doing, uh we're very proud to
host them in Johannesburg alongside AI
Expo Africa and that's the eighth
edition of our event. Um the chances are
they'll probably take it to a different
country, a different region um uh in the
subsequent years. So yeah, we're proud
that we kind of the test bed for this
first edition and uh you know, we're
working on a very exciting program.
We're probably looking around sort of
2,900
delegates this year. Uh around 110
exhibitors, 65 startups. So yeah, it's
going to be a great gathering for anyone
that wants to come and understands the
Southern African AI ecosystem, the AI
for good uh impact ecosystem. And we've
got investors in the room. We've got 72
talks. Uh we've got uh I think it's 22
workshops. So there's something in there
for everyone. And um yeah, we'd love to
have welcome all your listeners who uh
can make it to to Johannesburg to to
join us.
>> Uh Nick, this has been fascinating. You
know, what strikes me most is how you're
not just talking about AI in abstract
terms. You're actually building the
infrastructure. you're convening the
stakeholders and really doing the hard
work of making AI a reality across
Africa. And as we rush to deploy AI
systems, we really need voices like
yours to remind us to think about
long-term impacts to include diverse
perspectives and to ensure that
innovation serves humanity broadly, not
just the powerful few. So, thank you for
the incredible work you're doing. AI
Expo Africa sounds really like the
exactly the kind of convening space we
need bringing together 3,000 people from
government, business, startups, civil
societies just across the board. And
that's how we build the future we want
to see. And to our listeners, if you
enjoyed this conversation, please
subscribe to regulating AI podcast.
Share this episode and join the global
dialogue about creating AI governance
that's fair, democratic, and innovation
friendly. We are all for innovation. And
we need your voice in this conversation.
And until next time, I'm Sanjay Puri.
And remember, the future of AI isn't
written yet. Let's write it together
responsibly. Nick, thank you so much. Uh
this was fascinating. We could have gone
for a long long time but I know you have
things to do. Uh you've got a big
conference coming up. So thank you to
you from all our listeners. Thank you
very much Sanjay and um again a great
opportunity to reach out to your
listeners and um just appreciate this
opportunity to be with you today.
>> Thanks for tuning in to the regulating
AI podcast with Sanjay Kuri. If you
enjoyed today's conversation, don't
forget to leave a comment. We'd love to
hear what you thought. Share it with
someone curious about the future of AI
and join us next time for more stories
and insights from the leaders shaping
what's ahead right here on the
Regulating AI podcast.
[Music]
[Music]
