industry is not too dissimilar from
other industries in that you know um the
sort of the trust elements are not its
primary objective you know the primary
objective of these organizations to
build products sell to consumers and
grow someone's bank account you can
actually look at
their breadth of gambling behavior um
really involved gamblers they have
accounts with five or six different
websites or merchants has helped us
build what we call inplay play sports
betting opportunities. So now the vast
majority of all sports bets are placed
during the course of the game. Very few
level of AI literacy um amongst all
stakeholders in our industry um is quite
varied. I think you know there's a lot
of probably machine learning data
science experts uh within gambling
operators that are wellversed on the
topic regulate. So the one thing that I
would do to encourage the more openness
and transparency is to force disclosure
of the industry. So the welcome to the
regulating AI podcast. Join host Sanjay
Puri as he explores the dynamic and
developing world of artificial
intelligence governance. Each episode
features deep dives with global leaders
at the forefront of regulating AI
responsibly. Tackling the challenges
using AI can bring about head-on and
enabling balance without hindering
[Music]
innovation. Welcome to the regulating AI
podcast, your window into the future of
AI governance. I'm your host Sanjay Puri
and today we are exploring a fascinating
intersection. AI regulation in the
gambling industry, a sector that's
really becoming an important testing
ground for AI ethics, consumer
protection, regulatory frameworks,
privacy, and a whole lot more. And today
we are joined by two pioneers in this
space. Seymour Dragovich, co-founder of
the Game Safety Institute and the member
of the UK Gambling Commission's digital
advisory panel. His journey from
founding Bet Buddy which was acquired by
Playtech to his current work on AI
ethics and product safety gives him
unique insights into both industry
innovation and
regulation. With him is also Dr. Kasra
Garanian, director of research at UNLV's
International Gaming Institute, where he
leads groundbreaking work on AI
applications and responsible gambling
and payment systems analytics. Together,
they'll help us understand how one
highly regulated industry is navigating
the challenges of AI governance and what
lessons we can apply much more broadly.
Simo and Cass, welcome to the regulating
AI podcast.
Hey S, good to be here. Yeah, pleasure
to be here. Awesome. So, we get two for
the price of one for our audience. So,
I'm really really excited. Um, so before
we uh go into this, um, Simone and Cass,
we have a global audience. We have, you
know, policy makers, members of
Congress, Senate, you European members
of Parliament. We also have think tanks,
AI experts as well as entrepreneurs who
are building their AI companies. So for
their knowledge,
uh Simo, can you just tell them what led
you to launch the Game Safety Institute
and what unique challenges do you aim to
address there?
Thanks, Sanjay. So yeah, the Game Safety
Institute or GSI was something I founded
just over a year ago. So I've been
working in the gambling industry for
nearly 15 years and
um I guess it's the second time round
for me as an entrepreneur. You mentioned
I founded Bet Buddy which was an AI
platform uh focused on consumer
protection which was acquired by Playch
and after serving a few years at
Playtech and taking some time out um gsi
or game safety was one area that I was
very interested in and and primarily
because the regulatory optics have
largely been on the player or the
consumer in the last 10 or so years and
I see that shift more to the product and
it's an area that I'm, you know, very
interested in and and see potential in
the future. So, so yeah, that's that's
it in a nutshell. Well, that's uh we're
going to go much much deeper into some
of these issues. Uh Cass, you have an
academic background. How has that
background shaped your approach to using
AI for player protection? Just briefly,
if you can tell our audience before we
get into a lot more deeper things. Yeah.
Yeah. No, thanks Sanjay. Um yeah I was
actually working in industry uh for the
most part of like you know 2010 through
to 2017 uh mainly on like marketing
analytics, data analytics. Uh but became
you know I wanted to do something uh
that kind of gave back something I felt
that was really contributing to the
betterment of society. Uh so yeah went
back to university to do my PhD where I
focused on leveraging data science and
machine learning uh for consumer
protection um in the gambling space. Um
so really my interest really got peaked
during my PhD and I've just continued
that work now postphd
uh moving into AI ethics, AI governance
uh that kind of thing as well.
Well, we are absolutely glad that uh
both of you are doing the things you are
doing because I have to tell you I can't
turn on the TV without
watching FanDuel bet MGM and I don't
know there are so many more. Uh but
anyway, we'll get into that a little bit
more but it just seems to be especially
during football season everywhere. Um,
Simo coming to you. You recently noted
that 70% of the gambling industry
professionals believe the sector must do
more regarding AI trust. What specific
gaps do you think need addressing? Simo.
Yeah, thanks. I I remember that that
panel where we we did the poll with the
audience and and actually Cass was Kaz
was on that panel and we did research uh
on
very good research. But interestingly
look the gambling industry is not too
dissimilar from other industries in that
you know um the sort of the trust
elements are not its primary objective
you know the primary objective of these
organizations to build products sell to
consumers and grow and and all
industries have what we the econom
economists call negative externalities
and the the specific one with gambling
is around problem gambling and harm and
and that's really sort of um become um
more visible in in recent years and and
and the industry hasn't done itself a
lot of favors in the past and it's
really interesting Sandra that you just
mentioned the advertising in the US
since uh specifically online sports
betting became uh regulated across
states. we've had the online betting,
you know, for a lot longer in in the UK
and in Europe. And and really the the
problem was that the industry, as I
said, didn't do itself any favors. And
it kind of saturated uh saturated the um
the airwaves and and the internet with
advertising and and and this is the
problem. it wasn't really aware of what
it was doing and it had a sort of
negative impact in terms of the the
optics of the industry from not just
regulators and stakeholders but
consumers as well. So, so I feel that
70% where the audience didn't feel that
it could be trusted comes from past
experience where you know the industry
is probably too focused on short-term
growth um and not taking a longerterm
view and and when it came to this
discussion around the use of AI and and
the impact there's a concern that it
could make similar mistakes again. So
your worry is that uh you know looking
at the past things can obviously be
replicated also
u um you looked at this election and at
least again I've been watching elections
in the US for a long long time sorry to
age myself this is the first time that
we actually had betting on u
presidential candidates and obviously
there were stories about how some of it
kind of grew into that. Do you have any
viewpoint because we've just come at
least in the United States for our
listeners who are outside we've just
come out of a election recently and a
lot of money got uh wagured on that.
What are your thoughts on that? Uh Simo
Well, not on the elections but just just
on the whole point of betting on
elections. I mean it's it's interesting.
It's it's uh as with other betting
markets, you you absolutely need some
sort of guard rails in place because,
you know, these can be abused. You know,
even in sports betting, you know, in the
integrity of sports is is really
important. So, being able to not, you
know, players, etc., not being able to
abuse their position as professional
athletes to determine outcomes. And I
think sort of there are similar concerns
with with all types of betting markets.
So I personally I think these are a very
interesting market to have. They they
tend to be more accurate than the formal
ex. So you know it's a better it's a
better sense as to where you actually
think the election will come out. So I I
feel I feel as a as an opportunity to
bet my personal view is as long as the
guardrails are in place and you know
that there's uh protections in place and
maybe the main actors are not uh in or
or people associated with them are not
betting on them because they have party
to information that the general public
doesn't have then it could be okay but I
guess there's a little bit of thinking
that needs to be done around putting in
place the the policies and governance to
ensure it's it's fair uh for for for
punters.
Let me just uh if I can because I'm
based in DC, so I'm a little bit of a
political junkie. Let's just say I had
an interest in one specific candidate.
I'm not talking about the presidential.
It could be any other election and I put
a lot of money towards that just to make
sure that the percentage became higher
towards that candidate. It also could
give an impression that this candidate
is potentially doing much much
better. So could suppress the turnout in
other places etc. I mean I know that's
not your area of expertise. I'm just
fascinated about this whole I mean any
thoughts either of you have on something
like that? I mean because there was
somebody who made $80 million out of uh
wagering on this election. I'm sure you
read about that. Yeah. I mean you're
right. It brings a lot of questions like
that example you just gave Sanjay about
yeah someone with deep pockets putting a
lot of money on a market to make it look
as though someone's doing better and
then you know that's going to have all
these different
crowd dynamics where people start to
follow the crowd and that's kind of
going into how like you know trading
markets work and that kind of thing. Um,
and you know, you we've obviously had
betting markets in sport. So, I think,
you know, I haven't done a deep dive
into this myself, but I do know, you
know, betting integrity in sports is a
huge thing. There's lots of companies
now dedicate dedicated to making sure
sports is fair. Um, and the integrity
behind these markets is, you know, quite
robust. Um, now I'm not aware of how
robust those integrity practices are for
the betting markets on the elections and
other political events. Um but yeah
maybe maybe there needs to be some uh
inquiry into that. Um but but absolutely
I think the gambling market as it exists
today in a lot of regulated markets
integrity is a big thing. So maybe we
can take some learnings from that. Yeah.
Uh I think it's going to be interesting
to see as uh you know Simo pointed out
the uh mark the betting market turned
out to be more accurate than the polls
but uh we can see how it goes. Well, as
well like like um like professional
athletes can't bet on their own sport,
right? So maybe you know these people
there should be some people like in DC
for example that shouldn't be allowed to
bet on those markets um the same way
that athletes were aren't you know NFL
players can't bet on their NFL games.
That's true. Yeah. So we as uh I think
Simo said we need some guard rails. Um,
Cass, just coming to you, you know, your
research uh combines payment data with
AI for problem gaming detection. Can you
explain that to our audience? And how
does open banking data revolutionize our
understanding of gambling behavior and
financial vulnerability, but also how do
you balance privacy concerns with
protection needs? I mean, I've asked you
like three questions in one, but maybe
you can tell our audience a little bit
about that, guys. Yeah. Yeah. I'll give
a brief background before jumping into
kind of the banking data and payments
data. But um you know there's been a lot
of work over the past few decades now in
terms of ledger leveraging consumers
behavioral tracking data uh which is
kind of an industry term for all of the
wagering activity that goes on on a
online gambling website or even in a
landbased casino on a slot machine. Um
all of this data of course can be
tracked and put into a data warehouse
where it can be leveraged for various
analytic activities including marketing
activities. Um but one interesting area
has been leveraging that data for
consumer protection. Um so trying to
identify patterns and different markers
that could indicate whether or not an
individual is at risk of experiencing
harms from gambling. Um and I gave a
very kind of long explanation there that
an experienc individual experiencing um
at risk, right? Um we can't say for sure
these people have a problem with
gambling cuz you know there's no label
in the data telling us this person's a
problem gambler, this this person isn't.
um we can get part of the way there in
terms of you know maybe identifying
anomalous behavior or maybe an
individual's um behavior
is deviating from their normal activity.
Um we can also use proxies things like
whether or not someone's self-excluded.
Um a lot of online gambling sites now
offer the um functionality for someone
to self-exclude um from a website. So we
can use all these things to try and
create these models that can detect
atrisisk behavior. Um now as I was
saying a lot of the time um we were
using this behavioral data from online
websites and uh slot machines and what
have you. Um we weren't looking more at
the other data available. So there's
payment services providers that
facilitate payments to online gambling
websites. That's the data I used for my
uh PhD research. And now more recently
we're looking at how banking data um and
more specifically open banking data can
support this. Um and the reason why like
the primary reason why anyway this is
really powerful and interesting is that
if you look at someone's bank account
you can actually look at
their breadth of gambling behavior um
can be a bit more confident that you're
capturing all of the gambling activities
someone engaged in. Whereas if you do it
at a website level, you're only looking
at one website. Uh but we know at least
from our preliminary analysis that um
the heavily involved gamblers, they have
accounts with five or six different
websites or merchants and and the only
way you're going to capture all of that
activity is if you look at something
like a bank statement. Um so we're
looking at that now in terms of how it
can support consumer protection. Um and
in terms of the the privacy question
just to touch on that I mean we have
really strong firewalls at the
university in terms of all the research
we do and we make sure when we uh
donated data like this it's um you know
it's there's no personally identifiable
information in that data set. We go
through our ethical approval boards and
so we have pretty robust procedures in
place to protect consumer privacy.
But let's just say Cass just to follow
on for some of our listeners who are
saying hey what then let's say you
detect an anomaly or some behavior
that's you know as you said uh is a
problem issue what would you do with
that data? Yeah, there's Sema could
probably um answer this better than me
because he was uh in the weeds with
this, but um you know, once you've
identified a person who might be at risk
of harm, there's several different
things you could do. You know, maybe uh
turn off marketing activities or maybe
there is a customer intervention
protocol that a company has in place.
And I think some jurisdictions as well
are starting to mandate the time period
where you have to intervene with this
player. I think Dutch regulations
recently just said once an operator
identifies a person, they have to reach
out within I think it's one hour um to
that person to make sure that you know
everything's okay or maybe they can
afford to be gambling as much as they
are. Um so there's various different
interventions in place. Um there's a lot
of research going on in this area. I
don't think we precisely know the best
thing to do but um at least we are
identifying these people and we're kind
of taking proactive steps in terms of
minimizing harm as best we can. Well,
that's good to know that uh you know
there is research and there's some tools
uh that can identify it because as I
said there's just an unbelievable
proliferation of uh online uh gambling
happening. Uh Simo uh you talk about RG
tools 3.0. Can you for our audience
elaborate on that and what is its
potential impact on the gaming
experience?
Yeah, sure. So just to build on what
Cass was saying, when I talk about RG,
when we talk about RG tools, we're
talking about things like being able to
set a deposit limit. You know, could be
daily, weekly, monthly. could be the
ability to take a time out. So, take a
break from gambling for a day, a week, a
month. It could be a loss limit. So, you
know, you want to limit your losses to a
certain amount. It could be a timer that
tells you how long you've been online.
It could be that you self-exclude, that
you just remove yourself from gambling.
So, these are what we call RG tools. And
when when online gambling really sort of
became regulated uh in in say in the UK
it's around about 2007 these were these
were these were made available and
that's what I kind of call sort of RG
tools 1.0 zero. So the online industry
were very quick to say this is a very
responsible industry. You know in
landbased casinos you can't you can't
set you know deposit limits, loss
limits, self-exclude it's not possible
because it's online it's accountbased.
We know who the player is. We can do all
of this. So these were around the
problem was no one really use them. Uh
so RG or or RG tools 2.0 has really been
about uh what Cass was talking about. So
leveraging the behavioral data to try
and encourage people to uptake them. So
the person who looks like they're, you
know, depositing too much and they've
never said deposit limit, you intervene
and you say, "Have you considered
setting a deposit limit?" And and you
know, we did some research that shows,
you know, these these kind of real time
prompts are are much more effective than
than emails, uh, for example. Um, so uh,
so I call RG tools 2.0. It's all about
personalization. So, how do you take all
of the knowhow in marketing that's been
used for a long time and apply to
consumer protection? How do you get
people to use the tools and use them in
the right way? Uh, and and 3.0 I I feel
it's still a little bit separate. Even
the term RG tools feels like work. Feels
like something I still have to go on and
switch it on and set it and it's it's in
a separate part of the of the the
website or the app. uh it still feels a
bit disconnected. Whereas I feel a
future vision I I really like the auto
industry. I feel like they've they've
built some really innovative uh safety
mechanisms in the in the driving
experience. So, you know, when I'm
driving a car, you know, my car now,
there are some things in there that I
find really useful. Lane assist is very
useful. Uh adaptive cruise control, um
blind spot monitor, uh collision
control. Now, these are good because you
can't always be watching the road 100%,
especially if you know you're with
someone, you got the family in the back.
So, these switched on, I think, are are
fantastic because they're kind of the
the eyes and ears of the person. They're
looking out for you and they're trying
to nudge you in the right place. And I
feel that a future gambling industry
should should sort of take some lessons
from that and say, look, how do we build
the safety in? How can it think
intelligently on behalf of the player
instead of the player always having to
think about switching this on? What's
the right deposit limit? You know, is is
50 bucks a week, right? Or is 75 bucks
or should I take a break? Or should I
bet on this product? I've never played
this before. Or should I bet on this
market? you know, the the future we we
see this this the ability of the
operator to more intelligently um set
all this so it's in the background and
it's kind of working more seamlessly and
um for the player. So that's I guess one
of the sort of ambitions I'd have to be
able to sort of help the industry get to
that point.
So what you're saying is it's going to
have you know like the auto assist and
the lane changing
uh but and simo isn't there a behavioral
science aspect of what this is along
with AI how do you intersect that I mean
when you look at it because you're also
predicting behavior or monitoring or
doing some kind of your behavioral
intervention so have you looked at it
from that standpoint either of
you. I mean the the the behavioral
science approach is very interesting.
The sort of the nudge principles and all
of the the research
into pushing people into the right the
right direction and and and I think
there's a there's a fair bit that the
industry's been I wouldn't say sort of
deploying in a in a really strong way
but triing um so um I'm trying to think
of some examples. So I mean when we were
at Playtech and work with Bet Buddy the
the nudge principles were more around
okay let's look at what behaviors the
person has done so the person's logged
in they've got a moderate risk rating
okay let's see what they do in the
session they've deposited £50 they've
spent that money and they've redeposited
again we've seen they don't have a
deposit limit so this is where we try
and nudge them into sort of setting a
sensible depos deposit limit so we have
tried that kind of approach and and I do
feel there's
there's still a lot that can be done
there that can can help people make
those sort of right decisions. So yeah,
Sandra, I think you're right that there
there's a lot that we could take from
that. It's definitely the softly softly
approach and and I think the industry
likes it because it's not drastically
changing anything, but it's it's also
quite hard to get right and requires a a
a sort of a a research test and learn
data science mindset that a lot of the
industry don't always have. I think um
another point to this as well is if we
take that driving an analogy which I
love um the issue in gambling though
especially with this tool uptake is a
lot of gamblers will say oh RG tools uh
that's not for me that's only for
problem gamblers there's this like
that's a real big challenge that's a
real big barrier to get across and
there's a lot of work being done now in
terms of messaging and communication how
do we communicate that these RG tools
are should be for everyone and everyone
should be using them. Um so that's a big
challenge as well. So getting
acceptability that hey it's for
everybody. I mean I think that's a very
very important point that you said um
about which is something maybe that like
the driving analogy I think a lot of
people would be like oh yeah this is
this is good. This is for my benefit.
I'm not going to get into a car
accident. Um I don't think there's that
level of um acceptance amongst gamblers
straight away to be like, "Oh yeah, this
is going to help me um manage my
spending and all of this." I don't we
need we need to get there. I think it
might be possible, but yeah, we're not
there yet. That's that's a big
challenge. Yeah. Well, that's true. Um
Simo, uh you've written about the need
for product safety in gaming. Can you
tell our audience what you mean by that
and how does AI change the product
safety equation?
Sure. Um, so if we think about sort of
products, there's there's a there's
there's so much available. So what what
I'm trying to do from a product safety
angle is to sort of is to think about
gambling as an entertainment product.
And the industry likes to use that term.
It doesn't necessarily like to always
call it gambling. It's entertainment and
and I think that should be our goal is
it should remain entertainment. The
challenge is though there are so many
gambling opportunities as you've alluded
to earlier out there. you know what is
the right entertainment product for the
right player and sort of AI adds a sort
of an
interesting complexity to the mix
because in the past it was it was pretty
the the gambling products were quite
easy to describe and explain and there
wasn't a lot of variety if we take
sports betting most of the betting
happened before the event you know there
would be a soccer match there'd be a
football match hockey game and you'd bet
on typically on the outcome of the game.
But over the years, it's really evolved
and technology has helped us build what
we call inplay sports betting
opportunities. So now the vast majority
of all sports bets are placed during the
course of the game. Very few are sort of
pre-event. And then when you think about
that, it's just the industry just pushed
it further with technology and AI. So
now what you have are sort of micro
markets and micro bets in sports. So,
it's not necessarily like who's going to
score the next goal, which you know
might require a little bit of knowledge
and skill. Now, it's like what's the
outcome of the next pitch and and it
really and that's where AI is and and
technology is sort of generating these
markets in a short period of time and
pushing them to the consumer to bet on
as they're watching the the the match.
And and that's something that never
really existed, you know, a few years
ago. And and it's not with sports
betting. It tended to
be okay, it's a bit of fun. We, you
know, we want to, you know, we want to
make the game a little bit more exciting
or there's a bit of skill involved or
it's my favorite team. Now, it's like
every time I watching something, you
know, there's a market that I can bet on
and and we got to got to ask ourselves,
is the industry creating this because
people want to bet on the next pitch and
always have that option or is it another
way to make money? So, so I feel and the
personalization as well also comes in
other other aspects just as e-commerce
has been personalized for many years.
You know, you still have that with with
uh gambling as well. Say if I'm a slot
player, you know, the deposit button
might be personalized for what the
operator thinks is the is the kind of
optimal deposit that sort of keeps me
playing or or the or the chip size or
the coin size could be what they think
is the right one for me to sort of
extend my play. And so you sort of have
this sort of interesting you know a lot
of the the wider stakeholders regulators
you know charities concern sector are
cing on and saying well hang on a minute
you know AI is being used to sort of
hyperpersonalize the the experience you
know is that is that right for the
consumer and are you taking the
consumer's interests into the decision
and you know arguably they're not you
know arguably it's more around well how
can I generate more opportunities keep
them on device, not massively dissimilar
to social media, you know, that's
obviously under a lot of pressure at the
moment. So, so yeah, it's a really
interesting interplay of sort of tech
and data and AI and and gambling and and
you know, the industry's really moved
on. I mean, you know, Cass you were
talking about, you know, when you worked
for Caesars and it you know that this
wasn't really around at the time, was
it? No. Yeah. I like the point as well
like about how diversified the product
offerings have got and there's like
there are a lot of exotic products out
there and it's hard to tell sometimes
the the probabilities of winning and um
you know I think what maybe people are
striving for is something similar to
like say the alcohol industry. You can
buy a bottle of beer or a bottle of
liquor and there'll be the ABV
percentage on there. So, you kind of
know, you know, how how much you should
be drinking and what the effects are
going to be based on that ABV label. Um,
you know, if we could get to a stage
where we can communicate that simply to
someone what the level of risk is with a
gambling product, that would be really
beneficial, I think. But um as Simo can
probably speak to because he's trying to
do this right now, it's uh a little bit
more hard to translate that that same
ABV percentage label to a gambling
product because there there's a lot in a
gambling in in the mechanics of the game
that makes it very difficult to
communicate simply to a person what
they're getting into.
Yeah. So you're saying is some kind of
labeling. But for both of you, uh, isn't
the gambling industry, they have
existing regulatory frameworks? Uh, how
will AI regulation fit within or
challenge these frameworks? As you know,
Simo talked about micro
microargeting and this is just the
beginning. I mean, think about what's
coming. Multimodal is coming, digital
twins are coming. And I'm saying it
there are gambling serious gambling
implications of that. Think about uh
metavors and all these things. Uh there
will be an explosion. But how is the
gaming industry worldwide? Is do you
believe the existing regulatory
frameworks are good enough or with AI
you need some different perspectives?
Yeah, it's a really good point that you
just brought up. So we did some
preliminary research about 18 months ago
now because um we were interested in
that question precisely like you know
there were all these AI ethics
guidelines being written these AI
governance guidelines being written by
you know government and academic
institutions but they were all lot you
know very broad they were speaking to AI
very broadly they weren't necessarily
sector specific I think you started to
see some sector specific guidelines for
things like finance and insurance but um
we weren't seeing any even any for the
gambling industry. Um so we wanted to
look at this. So we conducted some
preliminary research. We interviewed
about 30 to 40 stakeholders about this
um operators, consultants, regulators
and we were asking them you know what
what are the specific ethical issues and
concerns and how should we address these
risks and um in terms of the regulation
um there are actually two schools of
thought on it. You know, a lot of people
said that yes, we need specific AI
regulations cuz the gambling industry is
very unique. Um, it is a potentially
harmful product, etc., etc. Um, but on
the other hand, we actually had some
some regulators say, you
know, our existing frameworks in
regulated jurisdictions are very robust.
we have uh you know pillars of uh
regulation like gambling should be safe,
gambling should be fair, it should be
crime free and um perhaps we can fall
back on those regulations and we don't
need necessarily need existing AI
specific ones and I think one
interviewee put it quite nicely because
um he compared it to the advent of
online gambling um where you know we
didn't necessarily see massive
regulatory changes we still had our kind
of pillars um that we were able will
fall back on. Um, and I think over time
as online gambling became more
sophisticated, we did see we did start
to see more specific regulations coming
there as the online gambling market grew
and it became more mature. So, I think
the same thing's probably going to
happen with AI. The one thing I worry
about with AI is the pace of change. I
think the pace of it right now is a lot
different to the internet. um the
internet kind of evolved you know over
10 20 years or whatever. I mean if you
look at AI right now the pace of change
just in like 12 months is absolutely
insane. So I do worry about whether that
same approach in online gambling is
going to work here.
No that's uh the pace of change is
mindblowing and as I said it's what is
coming down the pike is going to be just
something to watch for.
Uh I think Cass you bring uh me to
another important point is you know how
do you uh address potential biases in AI
system because you know these uh online
gaming and others are using AI to a
certain uh degree in terms of marketing
targeting microtargeting and those are
kind of built into uh certain
pre-existing data uh uh how how do you
uh address that or how can regulation
address that? Are we targeting the
vulnerable uh population to a large
degree uh that might be susceptible to
some of these things? It could 100% be a
risk I think. Um, and I don't know I at
least I'm not aware of anyone
broadcasting like transparently their
practices around how they're minimizing
AI bias or not exploiting vulnerable
people with marketing practices. Uh, so
to that point, I think that is an
opportunity maybe for regulators to to
step in there.
Um, this brings me to another point
though. I think the level of AI literacy
um amongst all stakeholders in our
industry um is quite varied. I think you
know there's a lot of probably machine
learning data science experts uh within
gambling operators that are wellversed
on the topic. However, you know, you
present the word algorithmic bias to a
regulator. I don't know if 100% of
regulators will know exactly what you're
talking about there. So that's a huge
issue. If if we if we if we're not AI
literate, especially regulators,
especially like people working in
consumer protection, how are we ever
going to, you know, appropriately govern
it and and put these guard rails in
place? Um, so yeah, that that's another
topic. But in terms of the bias
specifically, um, obviously, you know,
there's been a lot of commentary and
discourse in terms of race and ethnicity
and all those kind of things. Um, I
think in gambling what's interesting is
the ability perhaps for AI algorithms to
inadvertently model problem gambling
because yeah, you're feeding this uh
data into a marketing algorithm that is
supposed to optimize engagement.
You could envision an algorithm, you
know, creating a persona of someone that
is, you know, highly engaged but also a
problem gambler. the the the algorithm
doesn't know how to differentiate
between those two two things. So I think
like layering on kind of these um
evaluation or um checks if you will like
you know you could envision uh checking
an algorithm whether it is ex exploiting
vulnerable people by like maybe crafting
some kind of benchmark data set or that
kind of thing. Um I think that's
somewhere we could go. Um but I think
first we need to address the literacy
piece. I think that's a little bit more
important at this stage. So literacy of
regulators but Simo you said UK and
other places have had this for since
2007. We are obviously US is new to this
thing. Has anything like this been
looked at whether uh intended or
unintended biases that have crept in? I
mean because AI is doing microtargeting
based on data it is collecting you know
data from the internet from other places
etc. Has anything like that been
discussed globally at all in your view?
Um probably not. Um it's it is quite a
sort of a complex sort of technical
task to unpick the potential bias in an
algorithm and requires some time and
skill to be able to do that. And you
know I've I've worked on specific side
projects with colleagues to try and
understand bias. I I'm probably one of
the few people who've spent, you know,
over a decade working in this domain and
it wasn't a core part of what I did. So,
if it wasn't a core part of what I did,
it's probably unlikely to be a core part
of what someone else is doing and what a
regulator is doing. So for sure there's
an awareness that it could exist and
it's mainly those uh sort of broader
cases you know around sort of race and
ethnicity that kind of become sort of
more publicly aware but I I feel there's
there's an awareness that there could be
bias but no one really knows how to
tackle it you no one knows where to
start and and and and I think it touches
upon what Kaz was saying is you know
regulators are aware they need to know
more about how the industry is using
data data and technology. Um but uh but
they be and they're beginning
to make sort of strides forward to try
and address that especially in the UK.
The UK regulator is probably I think
it's fair to say it's considered one of
the most progressive and experienced
advanced regulators in in the world
because it's been regulating online for
so long and you know they are making
some sort of specific commitments and
strategic directions to become much more
digital uh and much more proactive but
regulators it takes time you know this
is a you know regulators move at a much
slower pace there's a lot of reasons for
that it takes a long time to put
regulations in place. Then they
typically stay there for a while. Um the
the typical person who becomes a
regulator is is a career civil servant
or somebody who's maybe been in the
police force or or a lawyer. So they're
not used to working in sort of high-tech
industries and and adapting at at far
scale. So there's a lot of challenges
for regulators, but I I can see they're
beginning to make some specific efforts
to try and address those. It's just it's
going to take a little while for the uh
for us to see the um the outputs of
that. But do you see this as a small
problem, a big problem or something um
as you know we have a lot of members of
Congress, European members of parliament
on our show etc. Is this something that
needs to be brought up to some of these
people or you think in the midst of 10
big things it's not really that gets up
to that big attention? Yeah, it's it's a
good question. It's a little bit like
Kaz was saying, oh, the regulators
probably focused on these pillars or
these strategic objectives. You know,
the three you mentioned was keep players
safe, keep crime out of gambling, keep
gambling fair, and and how they achieve
the objective probably is more important
than, you know, if if they feel they're
they're they're winning that battle,
they they're not too concerned about
sort of what's what's happening below.
But they but they're also aware of the
pace of change and the innovation and
and it kind of worries them a little bit
because this is all happening and they
need to realize they need to try and
keep on top of it. And they may not ever
be able to understand all of it, but
they're going to need to be able to
appreciate what's happening, ask the
right questions, and know where to get
information and and and and how to dig
deeper because otherwise that there will
be an industry that they won't
understand and will be very difficult to
regulate and will have shifted so much
what skills and knowledge they had to
regulate the last 10 years will be sort
of less relevant going forward. So,
they're definitely cognizant of it. We
were at the well I was at the
international association of gaming
regulators which is the annual get
together of all gambling regulators
conference about a month ago and the the
main topic was AI and I was moderating a
panel on on regulation and AI. So it's
definitely there. I wouldn't say it's a
burning platform issue uh but uh but
it's it's there on the it's definitely
in the top 10. I wouldn't say hard to
know what number it is at the moment.
Just one last point I'll add and you
guys are experts. I'm just thinking that
unlike physical like gambling or gaming
operations where you know you you can't
discriminate or encourage based on your
background or your propensity here. If
you did that it's hard to for people to
know what how you're doing
microargeting. But anyway that's just uh
maybe uh as you said it's not a topic
but you brought up both of you have
brought up uh something which is very
important and that's something uh you
know regulating AI as an organization
does you talked about you know the
education for regulators so how do you
ensure that we uh AI systems remain
explainable to regulators and users and
how do we make sure these regulators can
keep pace with this rapid technological
change. What would be your uh message to
us but to the uh people who are
listening? There are members of Congress
who do the regulations. Uh what do you
suggest for them? what uh what one big
message I think I'm trying to just like
personally send you know when I when I
speak on a panel or on a podcast like
this I think in terms of like
stakeholders in the gambling sector I
think it would be a really good idea at
this stage to like have that AI champion
in your organization or or maybe it's a
board of people or something and that's
if you're a regulator, a nonprofit, an
operator. Um, I think we're at the stage
now where there definitely needs to be
at least one person or or maybe it's
like a little little internal team of
people who spend some time looking at
this and then, you know, they're
actually dedicating some time and
resources to understanding what's going
on um and and really spearheading it
from from internally from a
organizational perspective. Um, so
that's actually the the big message I'm
sending out. Um, I think that's uh kind
of like a more foundational aspect of
all of this that is something that would
lead to a lot of other benefits, I
think. Um, so that's what I'm trying to
push for at least. No, that's a good
point. That brings me to just a question
to follow up. most large companies or
midsize companies have now set up AI
ethics boards you know to make sure that
it's following an ethical principle as
you talked about privacy transparency
uh explanability etc. Do you think these
whether it's this online gaming
institutes etc should have something
like that also I mean you know an
ethical approval board is very something
very familiar to me as an academic
whenever I do a research project I have
to submit approval for it to my
institutional review board and they look
at the methods make sure uh people's
privacy is protected or if there's you
know sensitive data being collected etc
etc um I absolutely think it's great
idea um to have that internally in terms
of a self-governing mechanism. Um you
could also envision it happening
externally with like third party audits
or that kind of thing. I know I do know
like Google or or I think it was Meta
tried this out but it seemed to didn't
really work a few years ago. I don't
know, maybe it was at an early stage or
something, but um yeah, I I mean I just
see it as a but most big companies now
have AI ethics boards that because I
talked to a lot of them and they all
have internal AI ethics boards. uh and
the other thing you said is the
regulator should have a point person for
AI because I think those are two good uh
points that uh hopefully we can pass on
to these people. But uh you brought up
and I will ask both of you what role can
uh you know certification mandatory
testing and certification play is there
a role for that? I I think so. Just just
a tiny build on the last question. I you
know if I was a regulator, the one thing
that I would do to encourage the more
openness and transparency is to force
disclosure of the industry. So that
they're forced to disclose more about
their
processes, what they developed, how they
developed it, especially if they're
relying on it for safety. you know if
they're relying on an algorithm to
detect risky patterns they should even
if the regulator and I wholeheartedly
agree with the suggestion that there
should be somebody a senior champion not
not an analyst who you know but there's
somebody on the executive who's
responsible for this you know that even
if they were just to enforce this a more
open disclosure all of a sudden it opens
up opportunities to understand and
question and critique and that transpar
arency and openness I think is really is
is a sign of I think a mature industry
we we see it in financial services in
not the same use cases but you know
where risk management plays a huge part
you know organizations have to disclose
the models and the data which stress
tested them and the outputs otherwise
then they're going to have more you know
restrictive capital requirements so
likewise in industry in the gambling
industry I think a regulator should be
confident enough to be able to ask for
that disclosure. It doesn't mean you
have to use the information from day
one. It may take you a while to get up
to speed, but at least you have it and
he can then move forward. And sorry,
Sen, what was the question? Cuz I've
just forgotten that question. No, no,
no. I wanted to get that one off my
chest. No. Uh my point was, is there a
role for mandatory testing and
certification here? Uh especially
relating to AI, uh Simo, I mean because
Cass brought that up a little bit. Yeah.
Now, and just building on that, I I do
believe the u sort of the mandatory
disclosure and the certification, the
the idea that Cass talked about the
benchmarking, I mean, how you know, how
do you know how good an internal
algorithm is or a third party system is
unless you test it on a the same data
set, you know, you know, to predict the
classify the same outcome. So if there
was a an independent organization that
had that data where you could submit and
you could test your solutions against I
think that would again it would it would
just open up you know you all of a
sudden you would see the KPIs you would
see the metrics well you know FanJuel
and DraftKings have used this sort of
testing or benchmarking service and
their internal algorithms are 70%
accurate well I know that now so you
know you you know that that's actually
really useful information because when
you test it again next year, I expect it
to be better. Or, you know, if you say
to me, well, I don't need to switch off
marketing cuz my AI is so good. I'll
know that, well, that's not true because
it's good, but it could be better.
There's still a proportion of your
population that are being missed. And is
that due to bias, as you said earlier,
Sanjay, you know, how can we do that?
So, that doesn't exist today. So, I feel
there's an there's an opportunity to
really raise standards and and and and
do that.
Go ahead. Uh, yeah. Yeah, I no I agree
with everything Sean just said there and
moving back to sorry the prior question
again. Um I think Sema made a really
good point though in terms of regulators
enforcing transparency among operators.
I think another key aspect of that is if
we look at something like the EUAI act
because the EUAI act while it's very
broad it kind of operates in this kind
of sector specific framework where it's
giving kind of the broad framework and
then it's going to work with sector
specific regulators in terms of
enforcing that. So sooner rather than
later this EU AI board or whatever it is
is going to come to probably gambling
regulators and be like how how is AI
being used in your industry? Mhm. And
currently I don't think they'd be able
to give a good answer um to this EU ui
board. Whereas, you know, if if we did
say to regulators, you know, start
enforcing transparency, um, you know,
every company should have an AI registry
of their AI use cases and things, at
least then they'd know how AI is being
used and then they can kind of, um, you
know, correspond that with the EUI like
risk framework and we can then start to
understand, okay, these use cases fall
in this risk category, these ones fall
out of it. Um, so I think that's another
key point about transparency there.
Well, that's a very important point. I
should have asked this question up front
for our audience, but just to both of
you, when you look at he mentioned
FanDuel, DraftKings and others, are
these uh online gaming instit uh
organizations also regulated by like the
gaming commission and others? Is it the
same or is there a different body that
does it for them? Uh in the US and
outside just for our audience if you can
tell them a little bit. Yeah, it's it's
typically by jurisdiction. Um it gets a
little bit more complicated in somewhere
like the US which has obviously a very
patchwork statebystate regulatory regime
and also there's no federal oversight of
gambling in the US. Yeah. It's all
statebystate regulation. So um yeah, in
terms of like a FanDuel, they would need
to get a gambling license through each
state they want to operate in. Um and
then similarly in in Europe, you would
need to be legislated with with
whichever jurisdiction you're you're
trying to operate in. Simo, yeah, than I
am, but it's it's complicated. did you
know there was a lot of effort I think
in the in Europe over the years to try
and harmonize gambling regulations but
it's it never really happened and um and
the industry always complains and you
know they have some justification that
you know why can't you know you just
follow the best practice of this state
or this jurisdiction so that we don't
have to reinvent the wheel but that's
the way it is you know governments and
provinces and states like to make their
own decisions on tax and revenue venue
and you know and it's complicated the US
you know it's it's you know some
products are regulated some are not
there's a lot of tribal gaming as well
tribal gaming land-based is very
powerful lobby so so yeah it it is it is
actually a really big and complex
overhead for the industry to try and
navigate all of that fair to say to them
you know so it's complicated just uh
last question before we get into some
fun stuff is there is uh some new things
that are on their way like esports and
others. Do you see them having I mean
new things that come up that would have
an impact on uh this whole gaming and AI
and regulations at all? I I can provide
two answers to this. Uh one is yeah I
think it's going to have an impact and
then my second part of my answer is you
should have my boss on the show who's
Dr. Brett Barber now because this is her
specific research area is the
intersection of esports and gambling. Um
so so she would be able to answer that
question really well. But absolutely I
think you know you can see that sector
growing. Uh there's a lot of focus on
integrity because you know fixing gains
in that uh area is a big concern right
now and you can see AI exasperating all
of that. Um, so yeah, in brief, yeah,
but you should uh have my boss on the
show. We'll definitely do that because
is it like esports now going to be part
of the Olympics or something like that?
I mean, they're becoming mainstream, so
to speak. So, uh, lot going on, I mean,
in your sector, which good for you.
You're going to have a busy time for the
next 10, 20, 30, 40 years. So, I'm
really happy to hear that. Um, so now we
move to a little more of the fun side.
Well, this has been fun for me. I've
learned a heck of a lot. Uh, which is
basically a lightning round. You're in
the gaming industry, so you know, just
one word answer. So, I'll try to pick uh
between the two of you. So, uh let's
just uh see what we can come up with.
So, Simo, innovation or regulation?
Innovation.
Okay. Cass, AI is an opportunity or a
threat?
Opportunity. Uh, simo ethics or
performance. That's a tough one, right?
Performance. Performance. Okay. Uh,
struggling to have his startup founder
hat on or his uh regulator gambling
commission. Yes, that's been pulled
pulled apart. Pulled apart. Okay, guys.
Uh, open source or proprietary?
Open source. Easy. Okay. Um, so for both
of you, is current AI regulation
sufficient for the gaming industry?
I don't think so. I think more needs to
be done as we've discussed. Yeah. Yes.
Yeah. I I I'd agree with that for sure.
Okay. Yeah. Uh, okay.
Finally, both of you, what is the
biggest AI risk in gambling?
Simo
biggest AI risk in gambling or gaming I
think it yeah or game I think it's the
industry not being open to what will
come if it can if it just continues to
innovate at super fast pace. I know I
just said performance over regulation
because it was a I had to pick one. But
if you if you just think about
performance then uh then the problem is
the the one size fit ffit fits all
regulation just will come in and it will
and it will limit the industry and then
we we we need another podcast talk about
the whole impacts of illegal gambling
and and other sectors. You drive you
drive your customers into somewhere
which you can't regulate. So I think
it's just being head in the sand,
focused, not not being proactive enough
to think about the future. Cass, your
answer, but it has to be different than
his.
I can't borrow from him. I'm going to
say that the biggest risk is not AI,
it's ourselves. Because I think um we
the gambling sector need to do a better
job of to my point getting more literate
in this area. And you know, if we're not
gonna get to a higher level of AI
literacy, I think then all of the AR
risks are going to be really big risks.
But if we get our literacy level up,
then we can start to mitigate those
risks. Um, so kind of a workaround to
your question, but well, that's good. We
are our biggest uh we are the biggest
risk um to this industry. Okay, Simo, uh
we'll start with you. Final words to our
listeners, members of Congress,
regulators, etc. What would be one
actionable thing that you want to leave
them behind for? Briefly. Briefly, I I
would take ownership of this. You know,
as leaders in your organizations, take
ownership and and push for
disclosure. Don't be afraid to push for
disclosure and ask for more
transparency.
um it will start the ball rolling and
and the the right things will come off
off the back of that. Push for
disclosure. Transparency is a big word
you've been using uh SEM all along. So
we'll key in on that. Uh Cass, one final
actionable item for our listeners.
Yeah. Um for those in the gambling
industry, but more for those outside of
the gambling industry, let's look at the
gambling industry about this topic. AI
ethics, AI guts because I think there's
a real opportunity here to look at a
vice product, a controversial product,
but one that has a huge mass of data
about the way people engage in this
activity. I don't think there's another
product like this, like a vice product
or controversial product that has this
level of granular data of behavioral
data about it. So I think there's an
opportunity here for the gambling sector
to put its best foot forward and
demonstrate how to regulate itself and
AI AI here.
Well, put its best foot forward for our
listeners. Uh that's an important
message and to our listeners today's
conversation with Simo and Cass really
has illuminated how one highly regulated
industry is tackling or I would say
trying to tackle the challenges of AI
governance and their insights on
balancing innovation with protection the
importance of datadriven approaches and
also the need for collaborative
solutions really offers a valuable
lessons for anyone involved in AI
regulations. I've learned a heck of a
lot today, but and thank you to both for
sharing your expertise and really uh
fairly uh enjoyable. Next time I'm in
Vegas, I'll be thinking of you. And
thank you uh to our listeners for
joining me, Sanjay Puri on the
regulating AI podcast. Remember to
subscribe for more conversations shaping
the future of AI governance. And until
next time, keep innovating responsibly.
Thank you, Cass. Thank you, Simo. This
was fantastic. Really appreciate it.
[Music]
