Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice and as I've said
many, many, many times, it's always
Rosie here and we are just a group of
students and more young professionals
who are very interested in anything that
has to do with technology and yes, it's
regulation. So today, before he says
that I leave him out of this
conversation, I'm welcoming my colleague
Jako Modio. Hi Jako, great to see you.
>> Hello Rosie. Great to be back and uh
super happy to to be host with you for
this podcast and for this episode.
>> Absolutely. Because it's one of those
occasions where you never know who
you're talking to because basically we
have decided that we didn't have enough
Jakamos on this podcast and we invited
another one. Welcome to this podcast to
our new two guests Jako Makonti and Eli
Gulo both um atonis and aristers.
Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you so much. It's a pleasure being
here.
>> I hope it will not be too confusing as
as me being the third Jakamus. So I will
do my best.
Yes, I'm I'm sure that Aria and I will
struggle a bit, but I'm also sure that
we'll manage by the end. Thank you for
being here as well. Thank you for
inviting me to the podcast. Thank you. I
I'm sure we will handle it.
>> Okay. I I really really do rely on your
help on that. Um so both of you, we have
to start by telling our listeners why
you're here. So I will ask you to start
with your career. So why did you decide
to become an attorney or barrista um
depending on which jurisdiction we're
talking about an avocado in Italian and
um what made you decide to make it your
profession.
>> Okay. Thank you for thank you for the
question because I think it's very
important to talk to the person before
uh talking about the topic. So you have
to know person actually uh what drove me
uh was opportunity. So I had some
clients that were interested in legal
services. Uh I and then I decide to
start my own practice, my own law firm
uh which is based in the center of Milan
uh nearby the contract district of
Milan. Uh and uh um I was also lucky
because uh if you reach a point you are
mostly lucky. I've found that in like
you win a case
but you also need a bit of luck to reach
every objective in life. uh and um so I
was at the same time passionate about
technology uh and uh my and I started
some years before the the GDPR was a
thing. So there was a big request for
GDPR compliance. Uh then I started to
study GDPR. I started to work with a
firm uh that was not based in Milan but
then I decided to uh make it one of my
core businesses. The other being
administrative law because I'm born in
administrative law. So very technical.
What people find most boring is uh my
brother and as you would say but here
but sometimes even in the most boring
thing you can have fun as I hope um
having here having fun here with you.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much. And and
I'm sure we are not as bad as
administrative law although I haven't
asked yet. Um Aria um and why did you
decide to become a lawyer?
Oh well uh actually I love to say that I
decided to be an intellectual property
and advertising lawyer as uh I'm quite
proud to say that I started this in to
specialize my activity in this field
from the the very beginning and uh I
often say that intellectual property
didn't just became my profession but it
interrupt any plans and completely wrote
them as um I I was Um at um the the
start of my last year at university, I
studied in in here in Milan and I had
actually chosen a completely different
legal field. I was supposed to start an
internship in labor law and everything
was already set actually. But then uh
the courses of my fifth year at the
university began and uh I had enrolled
in the industrial law and just a few
classes I was really fascinated about
the the matter and then one day this um
external lecturer the avocado
h came to give a guest talk and uh he
walked us through some land pattern case
very technical very complex and I felt
something click. So I decided that this
uh was what I want to do. Uh as I
realized that was a field of law where
technology, communication, design, art,
product. So basically everything that
surround us intersects with legal
reasoning reasoning. So um it combines
all the things that I had always been
curious about and from that moment uh
the path change I decided to not to take
the internship uh in this um legal firm
specializ in labor law. So maybe this
could be a good chance to apologize with
this firm.
It never showed that to the first day.
But I asked our career service to change
and to find a place a law firm to um to
start to work in intellectual property
and advertising law. And I was really uh
lucky to have this chance. uh so I
started this internship in my fifth year
at university and then I never left this
uh this field. So I can say that uh
intellectual property and advertising
law really uh stolen my professional
heart and now I'm a partner in in a law
firm here in Milan and I'm the head of
IP and advertising uh department.
I love hearing from the guest this kind
of uh answer because if I should imagine
myself giving an answer why you just
start to study
let's say law and uh and also data
protection I will never have this kind
of beautiful answer I will say yeah just
stupid things in my life I've done a lot
of it and this is one of those but let's
go ahead
>> well but to me with time similar when I
choose label law I I say okay we have to
start from something so it happens try
it happens and then really something
change so
>> it happens sometimes don't plan
>> and let's keep
>> the fool actually if I can add another
thing the fool like in the tarot reading
it has to start somewhere it steps into
the into the emptiness so uh this is
every every journey in life is taken uh
is taken without knowing what's ahead of
you. So, it's natural and it's beautiful
to hear from everybody.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. This is kind of
summary of my life, but let's go ahead.
We're curious to know what inspired your
desire to research into publish content
creator
responsibil.
tell us more about the writing process
and the idea behind it because I can
only imagine how hard it could be to
just trying to find the solution in this
field. What really inspired you Jako and
Aria?
>> Okay, thank you Jakamo. Uh the thing the
thing actually goes back because I it's
not my first book that I written all
alone because I wrote uh I wrote a book
on GDPR. I wrote a book uh two books
actually it's a treaty regarding the
platform to business regulation
regarding web reputation and regarding
um and regarding uh the
um
enterprises uh and um the action that
they can undertake against the platform.
Then I held a conference at university
and then I started to think about
about what has come to be the book that
we that has been recently published. Uh
and it was a process that has gone for
years. So uh it actually was born from
an idea of mine. But once I had it, once
I put it down, I said, "Okay, possibly
it's too big. It's too complex to do it
alone. So I talked to the to Stephano
Garzel and Yakui from As influencer and
I said okay I have an idea I can it's
too big to handle it alone. I think I
can do better sharing and thanks to them
we also have Aria and other uh very
important
uh lawyers, professors, researchers that
have been a great part of this um of
this creation. uh and uh actually I'm so
glad and it's also beautiful to see that
you cannot achieve alone what you can
achieve um what you can achieve together
uh because there are and I'm not ashamed
at all to say uh that while I have some
field of expertise there are other field
of expertise where I would have
not a thing to say about so here we are
and this is organia was born and it
would not have been possible with the
other uh two uh co-creators and without
professional such as Ari that have
worked
to deliver the best possible outcome,
the best possible product. I would say
>> um I will jump to the most important
question that our listeners I'm sure
will be dying to hear and potentially
also us. Um, considering also the
discussion we've had before the actual
recording of the podcast, please both of
you um, help us understanding what a
creator is. Why is it a professional
figure and when does a person that posts
online become a creator?
>> Okay, I can start. Then I would also
like to hear what Aria thinks about it
because there is also IPO involved and
uh it's not my specialty. Uh so actually
uh a creator who is a creator a creator
is everybody everybody that interacts in
web 2.0. You post a content uh you write
uh you write a post on LinkedIn uh you
create a video. You even edit your uh
you even edit your uh uh your video even
on your website. You are a creator. A
creator is somebody who creates as the
word says. Uh so there might be
it could be um so everybody is a
creator. Everybody uh there is a very
thin line between what is a professional
creator and what is an amateur, what is
a normal creator. And uh uh in my
present in my previous studies, I found
out that is very very hard to tell when
a creator becomes a professional because
something that is born out of out of a
passion out of something that you really
like to do actually all of a sudden
becomes
your prof become your main profession.
But also it's even harder to say because
there are some creators like if you
think about Mr. Beast who started as a
creator but at the same time develop to
be entrepreneur uh develop to be develop
their own branding they use their own
images. Uh so actually and there is a
very thin difference uh between
influencer and between creator too. So
uh what is an influencer? An influencer
is somebody that is capable of making a
difference. Because if I may post uh if
I may create something, it's not given
that I'm able to determine to influence
other people. You see, they say, "Oh,
it's just another boring lawyer
talking." Who who cares? Let's go see
what the content what the fashion
creator has to say. Let's see what the
latest trends are. Uh so, I think that
actually uh this is the different this
is the difference. And for us for
consumer for non-professional because
you can be professional in your field
but all the rest of your life you're
just a consumer. Um while it's very easy
to determine by the platforms because
the platforms and all the metrics have
all the data. So they specifically know
the um they have your metrics and they
know how much your community how much
your followers interact to you how much
you can determine. And so if you think
about the new media uh even called the
new new media, how do they work? They
work in a very similar way as new media
world. So they sell spaces, they sell
advertisement to um
um to other corporation that are
interested but compared to other medias
and this is where influencer come. This
is where the whole thing is about. uh
while other media don't have such
precise metrics so they are generalist
while uh the pro the profilation that uh
the big platform undertakes think about
Amazon think about uh Google uh think
about even Microsoft LinkedIn think
about meta they have such a degree of
information and also there is a shift
changing because influencer what is an
influencer with especially in Italy uh
with the Pandora gate We've witnessed a
change of paradigm because now there is
also various there is a there is a study
published in my website there is there
are also various degrees of influence we
have micro influence we have stars web
stars but at the same time a micro
influence that talks about the very
specific topic as a market penetration
is more convincing uh within his niche
and so it's a very complex word and uh
like many complex
questions
they don't have a simple answer. So I
would say a creator could be anybody. An
influencer is those whose uh whose
follower bestow on them recognition are
recognized as such and whose choice
whose content can influence other people
and determine what they buy, what they
think, uh where they go on holiday. I
would say
I live I'm also interested in the IP and
other um and what my colleague has to
say about it and
>> well um I completely agree on what
you're saying Jako and as as if we
think about the content creator
technically speaking is anyone who
produce a content aim as an audience.
So, uh we can say that in in a sense uh
both uh Jako was on this podcast and uh
and us we are also a content creator
today. But um what we from a legal
perspective uh the the the influence
became more relevant. the the fact that
we are speaking about a an economy
activity became relevant in order to um
understand who is an influencer, who is
a content creator
according to to law. So uh also in the
book we focus on professional creator
that are those who um use content as a
source of income enter into contracts uh
work with brand and agencies. Uh so for
them content creation is not just a
simply expressive activity a creative
activity is an economic activity. So I
think that this could be the first
milestone that we can set uh in order to
um then um match this uh this influencer
this content creator with the um
regulation system. Um
then I think that um the the the
need to distinguish between professional
and non-professional creator is uh the
second point on on which we have to
focus and in this sense the we can uh
talk about a recent development in our
legal system the uh release of Agricome
guideline and the code of conduct that
indeed uh provide for an a definition of
influencer. So I think your question is
really interesting because sometimes we
said that the definition is something
that uh lawyers love or professor law
professor laws but act in this case the
definition of influencer is really um
important because uh when we have a
clear definition of influencer that are
the have the characteristic um that Jak
was uh saying and that are the ones that
do content for an economy activity. Uh
we start to have a professional um
professional figure and to be
distinguished uh from the
non-professional one. And this
distinction matters because it affects
the liability, the consumer protection
and more generally all the rules that
apply to uh the content creation, the
tax obligation and the intellectual
property rights from uh both u
management and protection side. then um
and also from um um
the side uh um from which also the
influencer has to respect IP rights of
third parties. So uh today what we can
say uh in in our system is that we have
a definition uh and we have a market in
which the influencer uh the definition
of influencer includes also the uh
definition of content creator but as the
economy activity um characteristics and
the in influence characteristics
and uh we can say that is a real
profession
uh that emerged from creativity and is
now a structured economy activity and
that's why requires a powerful legal
frameworks, clear contracts and some new
um categories of uh of of law that we
actually um examine in our in our book.
Um, you you are a um IP lawyer and
you're very um obviously into the matter
and I wanted to ask you a quick question
just because it's something that's been
kind of going on in the last um couple
of months. So you said that like
technically anyone can be a content
creator. Of course then if you do have
an economic activity and if you are in
the right jurisdiction for example in
Italy you may be uh ruled by a different
set of rules but technically anyone can
be a content creator and if I am for
example someone likes posting on
Instagram pictures of herself um I
probably will publish content that is a
picture of myself. Um we have heard for
example from Denmark that the Danish
government um has been pushing for a
reform of their intellectual property
law so that people's faces literally
people's image could become
copyrightable.
Um, do you think that is fair if we look
at the definition of content creator and
would you say that if I post a picture
of myself that is my production that is
my intellectual property?
>> Well, I think that this could be fair.
Yes. Um because as I said uh influencer
um has a strict relationship with uh
intellectual property uh rights and um
there are actually a cluster of
intangible assets. uh you mentioned the
image and the recognizable visual
features that could be uh strictly
related to to image. And uh in in Italy
we uh actually have some uh cases in
which also these kind of recognizable
visual features related to the image of
a person has been uh identified and
protected as part of the image. even in
the 70s. So we are talking about many
years ago and
a era before influencers. So we are in a
system that actually protect uh always
protected the image as an asset of
value. And when the image became an
asset in an economy activity, I think
it's fair to uh to to protect to protect
this asset as as such. So um I'm not
sure that um is always the right um
choice to have specific law. So to amend
the rule and to add specific um rule on
this uh on this new uh activities as is
something that um uh change very fast
and continuously. So I don't think that
that could be always the good um the
right choice but for sure um by soft law
or by case law uh I think it could be
correct to protect in several cases the
image and also the name the nickname the
voice uh the catchphrases
uh the format and all the IP that an
influencer actually produce uh because
even uh just a feature is a work of um
is is a work that arise from a brief
from um an exchange with the brand or
with the agency with which they
influence the work. So there is a
contamination there is a change of idea.
So it's not something abstract. It's
something really concrete related to a
work a create a creative work that has
been done. So if a creative work is
present has been done I think it's
correct to protect this work as such.
Thank you Laria for your answer and just
coming back to the other Jakamo in the
room. Let's say that the profession of
content creator or better say now
influencer present challenge in three
important areas of low. the law of
contract, an agency, the tax law, and
last but not least, intellectual
property protection as we have seen. I
just have a practical example if Jakamo
will feel comfortable to answer to this
question. It happened to me back in the
days that I had some collaboration with
some brands. No. And back in the days,
there wasn't a regulation when the
brands contact you and say, "Yeah, just
trying to create an advertising on your
profile with an in with Instagram
stories." And then I realized suddenly
that the only way to make them the other
aware that was an advertising was to put
the hashtag ADV.
And this is strange, no, because this is
not written in a contract. And then this
the only way that you make aware the
others that is an advertising. So let's
try to recreate together some challenge
and in the area of low. What do you
think?
>> Absolutely.
Absolutely. Jako, you pointed out uh
the digital world because uh the uh the
problems that arise uh from this kind of
um uh from this kind of uh of contract
are regards the whole world. There are
also there is also another problems that
I would like to highlight and is the
relationship the contract between the
platform and the influencer per say that
is a so-called third type contract where
there is where is very unbalanced toward
the platform because you say there is
also this saying that goes oh influencer
they earn a match they do nothing and
they feel also they are stigmatized
um well it's very wrong because actually
they have to First not all arise to fame
because there are very few and then they
are they are subject to the algorithm.
So the first problem I pointed out is
that one is how can they influence
um
defend himself against the platform. um
what are what are and here we have a
legislation that um that has been very
prolific in Europe but we'll talk about
that later then there is also the topic
about contract as you see uh but
contract I think is actually the
simplest part because if you as an
influencer if you as a contract creator
have a sponsor I think that a good
lawyer could solve this problems for you
to be totally frank but then there is
also another part uh that that is
regarding the um the relationship
influence to follow and this is so very
delicate and this is what you were
specifically talking about. So I'm
actually doing advertising from from
somewhere how can I do it and then there
is another problem uh that is directly
connected to the platform uh to the
relationship between influencer and
platform that is transparency is
accountability. Uh so in Italy uh we are
starting to talk uh there is AICOM that
is the supervisory authority regarding
communication uh that uh that is
starting to uh intervene in the field.
uh but actually we have accountability,
we have responsibility. How can I how
can I make known to um to my followers
that this is a sponsored uh how can I do
this? Because you see if you are Amazon
it's easy if the you say sponsor link
it's written but if I'm an influencer
not so it's not so clear because also uh
there is also the problem about good
faith and I'm saying okay good faith but
the good faith where should the good
faith come from in my view it should
come from the sponsor per se uh and
should say but also about the influence
so uh it's also about uh morality the uh
the mor of the influencer, he should
say, okay, if a sponsor, if I'm
contacted by a sponsor, is actually
paying me to advertise him. Uh, I should
let my followers know that I'm being
paid for it. Uh, because there is also a
risk that's directly connected. It's
about your reputation because if you're
not transparent as an influencer, you
risk losing your reputation and
reputation is so hard to build and is so
easy to lose. So, actually there is this
big problem. then uh there is a problem
tax uh tax law is not at all my
expertise. So I will just uh I just hope
to uh I just hope to to set a bare
minimum but uh where is the income
produced? We we've we've heard a lot of
influencer moving to Dubai but what if
their followers are Italian? Uh most of
the platforms in the EU are based in
Ireland. So I'm not say I have this bad
habit of not talking about things that
that I don't know of. So I'm not talking
at all about tax law please because uh I
beg you not to let me talk about tax law
but actually there is a problem because
I've analyzed in the past this problem.
It's the paradox of the web 2.0 of the
big platforms. Uh this intermediation if
you're a nerd like me and you know June
you know the June law you know about the
spice. What does the spice do? uh the
spice
uh eliminates var eliminates distance
and this is what platforms are doing and
actually I think that the law is always
inadequate to regulate the system
underneath it is always inadequate uh
and I think that uh the legislature uh
should acknowledge that uh and so
according to that I don't think that tax
law is ready even if they are taking big
steps and regarding IPO I of course
leave uh leave the word to my colleague
Aria. I'm not I'm not spending a word
with about IPO.
Um
please um tell us something tell us the
core of uh intellectual property law and
if you could kind of weave in the
problem of for example um creators that
are not human beings. Um that could be
very helpful because I know that a lot
of discussion is happening online. Um,
we are Italian, all the four of us, and
we probably have heard of this famous
ballerina Capuina who is clearly not
Italian. Um, and the merchandise that
has been sold from this um Italian brain
rot phenomenon. Um, are they also uh do
do they have a right to intellectual
property rights?
>> Well, a very not easy question.
So,
>> I'm glad that I avoided it. Can I say
that? I'm so glad that
So from from a starting with the easy
part from an IP perspective we uh we're
saying that influencer content creator
are class of intangible assets but what
I can say is that um
this IP part is a challenge for the
influencer and the challenge here is
twofold. The first one is the
formalization as many creators start as
individual that post spontaneously
online and by the time they realize they
are business. So they are brand and
maybe as Jar says uh start to build
their own brand. Third party may already
be um registering similar trademarks
domain name uh using element of their uh
image as we were saying and uh at that
point um enforcing right can become more
expensive expensive and uncertain. So um
that's that's the first challenge. I
think um that is something that we can
build with more um moment like this. Uh
I hope that maybe some influencer are
listen and they recognize their value
also from an IP perspective and start
maybe to uh not to rely on just on
unregistered sign or the facto marks and
start to invest also in this part of
activity that is really important and
then uh there is the other side of IP uh
challenge that is the contractal um
control uh because even if the asset is
protected every contract with the brand
with an agency with a platform uh became
um a license of ID rights and image
rights. So uh this should be handled
with care uh in order to articulate who
owns what is created in the
collaboration what can be reused uh how
long how um in my experience we in the
negotiation we always uh stop um and
think a lot about what is a repost, what
is a new posting activity, what is
sharing. So um there is a mismatch um
from the the terms that are typical of
the platform and the terms of right when
we talk about the license of IP assets.
So I think that this part should be uh
really um handled with more attention uh
not just in a defensive uh way but also
in a monetization and um protection of
the value of the work of influencer way.
Um so that's I can say is the main uh
challenge from an IP perspective. If we
talk about human when we uh start to
talk about um artificial intelligence uh
creation we open a very wide debate uh
on who is the the creator. I think that
in our um uh legal framework today uh
there is no doubt about the fact that
art artificial intelligence cannot be
the author. So cannot be the owner of
intellectual property rights. So uh the
the ownership of it right should be on
the human that insert an input in the
tool of um AI and actually generate a
new content and I think that this kind
of answer is also confirmed by terms and
condition of the main IE platform that
we known today. Um and indeed we find
this kind of closing which also the uh
IE tool um recognize that the author and
the IP rights on the creation is on the
person who use the tool. So when I use a
tool to create a content with the AI I
am the author and I own the relevant ID
rights. uh but there is a big butt
that is in the process I think because
uh we know that copyright arise on what
is created. So if I just use chachi pt
uh in order to uh ask a suggestion to
write an article on IP law um my input
is not creative. So is really um uh is
possible that the creation of AI will be
not so creative because actually there
is not the
there is uh there isn't a real
authorship contribution in terms of
creative but if I have an idea and I
really um insert into the tool such for
example a creative input with a lot of
detail contains a lot of uh information
that is generated from the human uh is
likely that uh also the content will be
really a creation uh that can um be
protected by copyright. So that's the
main point and I think that that's the
uh the main point of the discussion uh
should be not on who is the author that
in our system should be a person a human
person uh but uh where is the creation
and if there is a created a
characteristic in the input and so as a
consequence also in what the I
generates. So that's I think um the the
point and then uh that's the point for
um a content that a human then post
maybe on social media. you were
mentioned that the Italian raindrops
that actually are not Italian because I
read a lot of article on that uh on on
that I creation and um they have no
relationship with Italian territories
even um in terms of others. Uh but then
actually they became so famous because
they are nonsense and apparently new
generation like this nonsense creation.
Um and this nonsense creation became as
you said um really a market because of a
lot of merchandising the cards that are
in all shop for for child and uh and and
and boys.
So um this market is relevant and this
kind of I creation can be protected uh
I'm not sure about that uh because we
have no information about the input. So
um as I mentioned I think that there is
the the the real uh point and if we
don't know how the first one Berina
Kapuchina and similar brain ros was uh
created um I'm not sure um in the answer
on if we can consider this kind of work
copyrighted or or not but um again here
is there is the the the point so If the
author of one of these brain rod can
prove the creative characteristic of the
input uh that he use or she used uh at
the moment of the creation of course
they can um claim for for copyright in
my opinion
>> I would like to have a think if I can
>> yeah of course
>> that is uh that is connected to what
we're going to talk afterward about the
legal framework uh Actually uh I think
that we talk a lot uh and in general uh
we talk a lot and badly about AI. So uh
I would go back to Roman law uh and to a
very simple
u political institute that is legal
capacity. So I would say uh I would say
to cut it short uh legal capacity AI are
as you correctly said instrument.
AI are instrument no matter how human
how similar to human can they be. Uh so
given that they are instrument given
that they are alien u using ancient
latin so that they are um um they are
instrument in the hand of those who use
them the answer is simple. So
you cannot uh AI per se cannot be uh
liable uh cannot be responsible. So uh
if you misuse AI there are there are
cases of misuse of AI by lawyers in
Italian courts recently. If you misuse
AI you are the responsible uh as well as
you don't check the contract you write
you don't check um and you don't check
what you do. Uh so I think that this AI
I would cut it short saying that of
course there are the this AI influencer
but it's not even you. If you if you
think one about my favorite band, the
gorillas, they are one of my favorite
bands. Of course, we we already have
virtual bands if you go back. So, this
concept is not entirely new. Uh and um
and for once, if you pose the right
question, the answer is simple just in
this case. Uh and then there is also the
IPO how where you talked about it so
well before. So I would not uh add that
I just wanted to talk generally.
>> Yeah. I if we if we have time I I then
just want to add uh something about tax
law because as like Java is not my my
field but uh you mentioned in your
question the challenge uh we are facing
and I handle with a lot of contract in
the influencer marketing uh field and I
think that one challenge that is uh good
to be mentioned in this uh in in in this
case is the the news of 2025 by Italian
social security authority the IMS that
on February uh issued this circular that
for the first time tried to
systematically classify content creator
and influencer um with relation to the
contribution regime and they um
actually says that we have to consider
influencer and content creator as
entertainment workers. I think that this
is really interesting and has a lot of
practical consequences that I don't
think we have time to go into today but
I think that is something that has to be
remembered because as Jak says a lot of
influence are moving to other countries
but we are talking about that activity
that even uh when
it has
is done from another country has a
strict relations with the territories in
terms of users to which you speak. So a
lot of influencers are underestimate
this kind of uh news in tax law uh that
has as I said a real consequence in the
agreements that we already uh we are
already seeing. Um so I think that is
really important from them uh to to be
properly assisted also in this field.
This is something that like the IP
perspective is something that is
underestimate. I think that also that
part uh should be considered uh in a
more relevant way starting from this
year for sure.
>> Thank you Laria. And uh as some of our
listeners may know, I'm based in Germany
and whilst in Chile there's a a new law
in Germany there was a massive fine to
influencers um not paying taxes in
Dubai. So like it's it's relevant in the
whole of Europe and and beyond what you
just uh highlighted. Um I will ask one
last question because otherwise the
other Jako the third one will kill me
and I know this already. Um and and this
is a question that I'm gonna ask Jako
because I think it's Jakonti of course I
think it's more in um potentially fully
within your field. Um
there's one particular legislation, the
um platform workers regulation
that for example has really really
strict rules when it comes to um the way
that platform workers
um have um been given a specific task
for example. Then of course I mean uh
every country has their own uh workers
rights regulations. Then there's of
course European law. There's the workers
non-discrimination directive and and and
so on. And you mentioned something very
very important earlier. You said
influencers have to be given a way to
protect themselves against the platform
and you mentioned the algorithms. So I
would like to know um is the platform
work as directive for example in um
regulation sorry enough? Do we need
something more? And in terms of consumer
protection from influencers
do you believe in the digital fairness
act or is it not enough?
>> Oh really really tough question. Uh so I
will try to connect the dot because uh
it's also a general question. Uh so
first thing first uh there is a big
problem because the kind of work that we
know in Italy is actually uh there are
two types there is independent work and
subordinate work. uh this is the uh this
is the thing but actually there is I
pointed out uh the thing that we have
also other type of work we have the
so-called par subordination and I'm
wondering um are they and if I would say
a simple question I would say oh of
course uh an influencer is a freelancer
of course is an independent worker and
it would not be it would not be wrong.
It would not be a wrong answer but it
would be uh simplistic. Uh it would be
too simple and it is not like that at
all because actually we talked about uh
we talked about before the fact that uh
they are subject to the platform wheel.
There are cases of there have been cases
of influencers being expelled and in
Italy we have them a lot. We I I studied
a case about an in
um a financial influencer on Google that
was pointed out the influencer name. I'm
not saying it of course. Uh and uh
Google autocomplete. What would Google
autocomplete said uh he would he would
completed with fraud scammer and so you
see how big a power this platform has
against the influencer that now have
become the scapegoat of society. they've
become immoral whatsoever and this also
I would like to find this common
stereotype. Uh so this is the first
thing. Then you talked about legislation
if the European legislation is adequate
and I have a personal view because
actually to be totally fair uh I've lost
count on how many regulation uh even at
European law not counting the soft law
not count not counting Italian specific
law I've count I've lost count of them
and it's really even for a professional
it's very hard to keep track um and uh
no I I've not lost count. I could but it
would be even too long to quote. Uh so
the thing is uh the thing is is this the
right approach? I said I said it before
that in my view it I know that agrees
with me. I can read I can read in her
face. I said that it's totally the the
wrongest approach because I'm uh I'm a
provocator by nature. So I would say
that what would be uh the legislator
job? I think that the legislator job
would be that of not regulating because
every regulation, every law that you
introduce creates entropy and they say
okay you're a lawyer, you're a
consultant, you're going to be happy.
No, of course I'm not happy. I do
administrative law. There are so many
law subregulation
uh decision presidents cases and it
drives me mad and it increases the
entropy. It diminishes the
predictability of a case. it diminishes
the predictability because I'm talking
about the Italian data protection
authority not about the latest things
but about the uh the metadata the
metadata and it conflicts with
directiveness too because if I have to
preserve datas for a longer period of
time what would I say so I actually
think that the eur European Union
started everything uh on the right foot
with GDPR that had two very simple one
very simple principle accountability.
Um I think that the regulation platform
to business was a bit too shy in my view
uh because actually did not really
address the problem. It did not address
the problem that regards influencer that
regards Amazon seller. It did not direct
the problem that regards IP uh that
regards. So actually I think that they
are overdoing not really addressing the
problem. And then also another thing
that I hold here and that disgusts me
about the European Union is the chart
control regulation this proposal uh this
proposal. So I think actually uh I'm
really afraid where we are headed where
we are going because we are creating
entropy that is not
sorry we're creating entropy uh that is
harder and harder to uh to regulate. Um
we are going we are losing the principle
and uh I'm I'm a typical because I'm for
the approach kiss that means keep it
simple stupid. uh GDPR was not a known
was not a perfect regulation of course
but it was in its complexity it was
simple because it said what you had to
do and it had this principle
accountability and if I have regulation
subregulation the data pro uh uh the
supervisory authority that make their
own subregulation
actually
it's it's what is killing accountability
and then there is also the distance in
European Union at eye level Now you're
dragging that says oh GDPR was a wrong
thing. No actually read GDPR
read GDPR. GDPR is simple. I think this
is what we are losing. Uh we are losing
and uh this is what we recover. I'm
afraid about omnibus that because
European
European European Union now says okay we
possibly did a bit too much. You said
doing too much is as bad as doing too
little even worse from time to time.
Okay, let's try to correct what how can
we address the problem that we that we
created. Now we have AI act. Now we have
DSI. We have DMA. We have data privacy
act. We have data free flow regulation.
We have GDPR.
It's so we have NISTO. We have PSD2.
I they are countless
and we are losing the core principle and
the core principle
could help you govern even western
trends like EI.
Go back to Europe. Go back to Roman law.
go back can can does an AI have legal
capacity and you solve most of the
problem regarding AI.
So this is my view. Thank you for the
question because it's really stimulating
and uh I love that.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you so much for for saying so. Um
also I noticed that you didn't mention
the AI act. I do not want to open this.
>> No no no I I decided to talk about it.
>> We need another hour to talk about the
AI. I mean I I can assure you that
you're always welcome on the podcast
because it's well our decision. It's not
easy. We we have legal capacity also
under Roman law. Um I have to do a one
last plug for you and I will ask my
colleague Jako to help me doing it.
Jako, please plug it all the way.
>> Yeah, I know because my pronunciation
in Italian is better than yours. So
>> true. too many languages.
>> I will say in Italian
content creator responsibility best
practice published by Ju and of course
available in Italian.
>> Thank you so much uh both of you Jonti
and Julo. It was a pleasure to meet you.
um please come back on the podcast and
we can uh open the digital omnibus uh
big screen and and potentially talk
about AI and the Google potential
investigation of the European
Commission. Elia,
>> it will be a pleasure.
>> Thank you so much everyone. Jako Jako
Elia, it was a pleasure and this was all
from legal for techulating.
Thank you. It's been been very
stimulating
>> and I'm very glad to to have taken part
in it.
