Welcome to another episode of Vegan for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice here. I will change
this um entrance at some point. It's
always Rosie here. And as I've said many
many many many times, this is just a
group of students and young
professionals who are very interested in
anything that has to do with technology
and yes it's regulation. So today I am
joined by my friend and colleague Jakamo
Jakamo Gagaro. Hi Jakamo, great to see
you.
>> Hi Rosie, great to see you as well. I am
super happy today because not only we
managed to talk to a person we'd already
talked to in the past but also he's now
become a friend of the podcast. Um happy
to see you Kai. Great to see you.
>> Many thanks for the invitation. Happy to
be here again.
>> I am super happy to have you here. It's
um it's always a pleasure to see you and
always a pleasure to ask you, you know,
firsthand experience and especially in
these very very um delicate times.
That's what I'm going to say. Not to say
controversial because I've said it too
many times in the last uh recording. Um
um just I I'm sure that all of our
listeners know about you, but just to
keep track of what you're doing right
now and what you're working on. Do tell
our listeners here, Kite Tenner, who are
you and why you're here.
>> Exactly. Um so um indeed Kaenna, I'm um
working in the European Parliament for
um MEP Axifos now for over eight years.
Um we are both feeling even more older
when we are talking about this time that
I'm already here and also Axi who is
even longer in the European Parliament
and indeed we were working a lot on AI
on data data protection and so on and so
on and normally I could have um tell you
or given you a long list of legislative
files that I'm currently working on
normally it was around 5 to 7 but right
now to be honest
I don't have anything legislatively um
because the parliament um and the other
institutions were um so busy in
concluding everything at the end of last
term like the AI act, DSA, data act and
you know them all that yeah um since the
European election um the parliament is
largely waiting for um new legislative
initiatives um of the commission that
are now slowly um coming and of course
Axa and I as we truly we are true
believers we have our our topics that uh
we really love and so on. So what we did
in the last months to to reply
concretely to your question was mainly
to um support um initiatives outside the
European Parliament or also partially
inside like Euro stack um like the whole
discussion on um tax sovereignity.
We also checked quite a bit how the AI
office and national competent
authorities are now doing in terms of
implementing um the AI act and yeah a
lot of let's say more horizontal uh
topics uh a little bit with Mario Draghi
and his um competitiveness compass in
mind. So what are things that we as
European Union should reform? Also, what
are certain methods um work methods that
maybe needs to be changed? Is it good
that so many committees are working on
legislative files? Can we do it faster
or should we better take care of better
regulation principles and so on and so
on. So yeah, it changed a little bit,
but now as I said already, probably very
soon there will be again a mess of
legislative files coming and my life
will change again quite a bit.
>> I am going to throw this bomb around
because we we've all been like kind of
tiptoeing around it. Not really. Um last
time we talked we were talking about the
AI um liability that had just been kind
of rejected at the commission level. So
they they refused to uh put forward that
proposal. Um
the digital omnibus came down instead.
So we're talking of a span that goes
between like in six months. Six months
ago, we were thinking of having AI
providers liable for what they were
doing similarly to how um producers are
liable for the products they put on the
European market. So it would have been
like a specification on how to do that
and now we are talking about
simplification.
Um,
in terms of also your experience of the
AI act and how things like for example
AI conformity may be difficult to prove,
why do we need simplification and is the
digital omnibus the right way to achieve
it?
>> Very good question. Um so maybe first of
all um I want to refer to a Financial
Times article from today which I would
say is proving Axel and me Andrea Vender
from SEPs and a lot of people in civil
society from companies and so on right
because uh in this article um it's
talking about insurance companies that
they are not willing um anymore to um
Yeah to to provide for certain liability
scenarios um when it comes to AI systems
and in especially foundation models when
those um technologies are leading to the
wrong um wrong outputs or wrong outcomes
and so on and so on. And in this
article, there's again a clear plea for
strict liability rules uh when it comes
to AI. And I mentioned already Andrea
Render and Seps but also many other
think tanks are also continuing to do
our work um on this topic. And basically
all um the findings that they are
creating um are indicating that AX and I
were right and there should be an AI
liability law but as you said
unfortunately it was uh scrapped. I
would however not put it kind of in an
um either or um comparison with the
digital omnibus. So let's say that the
political um momentum completely shifted
because um the the let's say basic idea
behind the omnibus was actually also
coming from the very same community that
I was just talking about. So again,
Andrea Render, Scott Marcos with whom I
publish also quite a bit, Alexander
Distri from Sea, Mario Marinelli from um
from Bugal and so on. I could now make a
long long list and this was only
academia think tanks but of course there
are hundreds of people that over the
last years um have mentioned that we
need simplification that our legal
frameworks became too complex um to make
a bit of advertisement of course many
know it um from Scott Marcus and myself
there is this kind of periodic system so
this table of digital laws there are 101
applicable laws right now. And again
there I would say there is really a
common sense view that almost everyone
shares in at least academia um that this
is too much that there are too many um
overlaps contradictions and so on and we
need to um streamline it. uh we need to
simplify it and also that what is
currently there is neither helping um
the society the individual because there
is a lack of enforcement. There are also
a lot of situations where the individual
that was harmed
yeah doesn't really know what rights are
applicable.
There are sometimes situation where
different laws are assessing the same
situation in a different way and of
course for companies this situation is
also not very easy to handle. There's
huge legal uncertainty and so on. So in
general we again would claim that um
clear liability rules but also
simplification of our two complex um
legal system or framework in the
digitative field is something that is
basically going hand in hand because the
final result or objective um should be
more legal um certainty should be better
enforcement of individual rights and so
on and so on. The problem now and with
that I would close our first uh question
um is a little bit how the omnibus is
being designed and also maybe if I can
say it how it's being presented by the
European Commission because and as you
know I have sometimes a few heads so now
I'm taking my academia or research ahead
um when I'm working with technical
university Munich or SEPs and so on Um,
if I can speak for the research
community, we always thought of
simplification as an extremely technical
process. So really, let's say
10 researchers going in a room receiving
500,000
can uh use all AI tools that we have and
basically after six or 12 months coming
with a long list of points um that are
not working well again that are
contradicting each other and so on and
then the EU institutions basically
taking this list and um executing it. So
fixing it very uh quickly. But what we
see now with the um digital omnibus but
actually also with um those seven or
eight omnibus packages before the
process how the commission is
introducing it. Um how they are um
presenting an omnibus in public
speeches. How the council and the
European Parliament are also receiving
this file. It's a highly politicized um
process. And now with the digital
omnibus, we have the situation that most
companies are not really sure right now
what it really means and what does it
bring for them. And we have um my
friends Johnny Ryan and Max Shrems
already uh fighting strongly against um
the omnibus. So yeah creating basically
already a situation and I would say in
certain points they are correct maybe or
at least they indicating that there are
some problems but let's say those situ
those reactions are of course creating
tensions and making it very difficult to
compromise in the end. And this brings
me to my most important point. Again,
speaking as a researcher and someone who
really did a lot of research in this
area on better regulation, this process
is too political now and I I I don't see
how it will achieve what we
wished for in all those years. um
because it could only be possible if
it's a really um technical process
without high emotions, without disputes,
without fights and so on and so on. So
yeah, the jury is out. We will see. But
I think the start was already not so
great in terms of quickly uh fixing all
those problems that I have slightly
touched up on.
building up from the political
environment that you just just
described. Uh it's really common to to
talk about the Brussels effect that you
clearly know what is it but for for the
listeners that maybe don't know what it
is is basically the fact that you
legislation has effects on the
legislation abroad. Uh is it possible
that this time with this digital omnibus
we're talking about a growing Washington
effect? So basically where the uh
American legislation has an effect on
Europe but uh not not exactly the
legislation but what is happening and
the current administration is it is it
possible to talk about uh this effect
>> it's a good question um a bit tricky to
answer um I would say
um there is indeed a Washington effect
and I was actually using this term um
one year ago quite a lot in the US um at
events on penny discussions and so on
when I was talking about the AI act um
how it's being implemented and even
before Trump was presenting it his new
AI strategy I was always making the
point that we have now a really
interesting situation worldwide with
very different approaches on AI policies
China, Singapore, Japan with copyright.
You might remember that they have very
uh yeah strict rules. They are
interesting rules. We have the UK, we
have Switzerland uh with a third way and
so on and so on. and um Washington
already under Biden but also now under
President Trump are of course offering a
complete different approach um in
comparison to to the European Union. Um
so there again there's really the jury
out which one is better which one maybe
um allows um a lot of innovation um in
AI which one is protecting fundamental
rights better and so on and so on. when
it now comes to um the digital omnibus
and this whole deregulation or
simplification debate um yeah let's say
you could also term it Washington effect
but due to due to the fact that it's
basically at least in research a kind of
um very limited uh term that is
mentioning how successful um Europe's
regulation is worldwide. I would not use
it but speak instead about pressure from
Washington DC because this was
definitely there even though it's not
the the single reason why we now have a
simplification. So we discussed it
already the last time I think also with
the AI liability directive. There was
indeed a lot of pressure coming from
Washington DC against um our proposal.
Um for example, Amam, the um trade
association of American companies here
was quite outspoken. Uh Ma, Google and
so on and so on. You can name it ITI,
CCIA. Um and of course back then this
had impact but also on the AI liability
this was not the only reason also in the
European Commission as we discussed the
last time there were many people not so
much in favor or unsure if it's the
right time and similar I would say we
should assess the pressure from
Washington right now um it was
definitely helping those in the European
institutions that wanted to simplify
that wanted maybe in certain areas also
to deregulate because then they could
say our American friends are also saying
that that that our American friends by
the way are often also very good in
giving um policy makers some bullet
points or some speaking points so you
can also make your arguments better with
this uh support and again with all of
that it definitely helped to to create
momentum for simplification
deregulation. But as I already kind of
indicated in my first um answer um
simplification was a demand from
academia but also from industry from BDI
from business Europe, digital Europe but
even from access now and civil society
there where demands to simplify or to
make legislation more effective. it
access now for example in particular
when it comes to enforcement which is by
the way in my opinion really bad and
they are making a lot of uh good points
on it and then we have of course also
the DRI report the letter report and a
lot of other reports which basically for
the first time created um really
momentum because before it was Scott
Marcos kite or Andrea Vender and someone
else or Ella from it who was saying we
need to simplify we need to make that
that better but we are all small fishes
to say it like that but with um Mario
Drai and Enrico lettera it was really
one of them so one former ECB president
one former um shorttime um Italian um um
what was he prime minister I think was I
tell but I think prime minister um Yes.
And um so it was really from the highest
um rank basically possible that this
push was being made. And I think this
together with the US pressure, this
together with all the prep work that
people like Scott and I did and so on.
And of course also the declining um
European um economy um the geopolitical
problems and so on. It created basically
what Christina Kafara in another topic
called the perfect storm and we really
had a perfect storm now for
simplification
slash or some even deregulation.
>> I love how um it's all the Italians that
want to simplify things and I think this
is brilliant. Um but also um a point
that you made that I think was
absolutely interesting from our
perspective is this idea that I mean the
Americans of course have their stake in
this as they should because we are the
biggest market. Like I I read something
today was 450
million European consumers.
>> It's a lot of people. It's a lot of
money. It's a lot of money. Um but
it seems to me that that kind of hints
to one problem that may have arisen with
the digital omnibus and other documents
um other proposals of the European
Commission which is
>> the best points are the ones made by big
stakeholders.
>> Yeah. which tend to be American and the
Draggy report, the letter report do hint
to European firms having to be made
stronger and um kind of facilitated in
their trades. And we are not talking
about big tech conglomerates there.
We're talking aboutmemes. We're talking
about very specifically
oriented businesses, medium enterprises
that are very good at doing one thing
and they do it perfectly.
That's the European way of doing
business until now at least. So my
question is like is there a way that
because I've also read what you wrote in
in in general I think that your focus
was much more kind of um sovereignty
oriented in a way like let's make what
we have grow faster and better whereas
the digital omnibus feels and that has
been a critique to it feels a bit more
like oh let's let's help these guys
because they bring us great services but
they are American,
>> right?
>> Yeah. So, um you mentioned already
European way and indeed um together with
uh I think 30 people and there were even
more supporters we um created this
publication in May which was actually
called European way how to reclaim our
digital future. So very big title let's
say but indeed we were making exactly
the point um that you have just
described um we have a decentralized um
economy in Europe um especially in
Germany we are always proud about our
mass of ummemes but it's the same for at
least the north of Italy as far as I
know um but um also yeah many other
economies um in in Europe And I would
completely subscribe to what you have
just said that um many many digital laws
but laws in general coming from the
European Union were not really good in
representing the interests of small
European companies. Um again I was
talking already about better regulation.
I truly believe we have a very very big
um representation gap here in Brussels
um because lobby um is costing money. If
you are seeing what some companies are
investing here, I think it was 9 million
uh from MA every year for example uh
even the biggest German company is
probably I don't know Zemen's SAP
probably they are investing 1 million or
something but there is already um a big
gap and again those companies are an
exception most of our companies are
super small and don't have anyone here
in Brussels and they also are not fully
represented by for example um the
chambers of commerce who are in my
opinion doing an amazing job but they
don't have the capacities to reach out
to each and everyme in different sectors
and so on. So it's very often the case
that um large sectors are completely
overlooking deadlines for um feedback
consultations that something is
happening and suddenly they are
listening. Yeah, there is a sectoral log
um becoming applicable in one month now
you need to be compliant. Um and here
the European Union indeed needs to get
better. Drag even though this was not
the main point of his report is slightly
touching up on it. I mentioned it myself
at the beginning that also AXA and I
together with many friends and allies,
we were thinking a lot about how we can
improve the policy cycle here in
Brussels and how we can make sure that
also civil society and so on is better
involved because and this is again my
strong opinion also shared by Axel. If
we will not change it soon, we think the
dem the democratic system and the
European Union might not exist much
longer because we feel people are
getting more and more frustrated about
exactly that point that Brussels is not
really with the people with their needs
and so on and again it's it's really
about how we are working here and there
maybe Morn had a quite good idea in
execution maybe here and there are some
weaknesses but with those um town hall
meetings and this kind of citizen uh
representatives and so on I think this
is maybe a way to go but again it's
definitely a discussion that Brussels
finally um need to um conclude and or at
least start but now going back to the
omnibus um until we are having those
changes of course it will take many many
months and this will be too for the
omnibus um to to yeah to to benefit from
hopefully good changes in the future.
What we can do now is basically
yeah help the commission to do better
outreach. The proposal is of course
already on the table. Um but the
parliament and also the council
of course probably want to conclude the
omnibus rather fast. But nevertheless
they should check especially with
sectoral players especially with rather
specific um civil societies that the
commission maybe have overlooked. If
those proposed changes are in the end
really positive, net positive, are they
really beneficial? And this would be
maybe my final point on that question.
Um because also my feeling is some of
the proposals are maybe good if you are
a very powerful company with a big um
legal team and a lot of um financial
capacities in order to hire even more
consultants and external lawyers. But um
those companies for example could maybe
use legitimist interest in the current
wording. But is it really a formulation
a legal text that givesmemes
without a policy team without the legal
team enough legal clarity in order to
say okay yes I can train now my AI model
or my AI system in a um compliant way.
Currently as a lawyer I would say no. So
indeed probably right now um it helps
more the big guys and in particular the
guys from outside uh the European Union.
Um I think here and I want to give
credit because until now I often
criticize them. the German government is
really learning a lot and improving a
lot. And what I found is their nonpaper
um that they published just a few days
or weeks before the omnibus was coming
was actually
much more sound. Um and my feedback
would be uh what I saw and also what I
heard from stakeholders. the German
government really spent a lot of time to
talk to stakeholders. So what they
published in their um free position for
the omnibus is really based on thousands
of talks of informal workshops and so on
with all kind of civil society
organizations, companies and so on and
so on. My big hope is that with this
empirical treasure that they created
that we will have in the parliament in
in the council a much more
evidence-based discussion than the
commission's proposal is representing.
>> Now that that we have this proposal from
the commission that was proposed last
last week. uh do you expect like tough
uh negotiations between the the
parliament and council especially like
uh I think the um the obligations for
high-risisk systems should come into
force in August 2026. So do you expect
that will be finalized before that date?
>> Yeah, I'm not so sure to be very honest.
So uh three short points I want to make.
Um first of all um it's now
very interesting to observe even for me
in the inside um how the parliament and
also the council will react. Um to my
knowledge the council and the um Danish
presidency have a very um ambitious
plan. Basically I heard three meetings
until Christmas. Uh yeah, it's very uh
tough but um the council often also has
not so much problems in terms of
different competences, working groups
and so on um than the parliament. In our
case the big question will be um for AI
maybe the chances are high that it's
going again to impol committee the old
committees basically but what are we
doing with the data omnivores? Um there
are different um laws or elements as you
know and um just to give you a quick
overview there's one file where my
committee legal committee so access and
my committee um is in the lead um
platform to business regulation there
are others where shared competence um um
others where the IMU committee has very
strong exclusive competences and of
course we have laws like GD GDPR which
is only liberal committee and data act
which is only committee. So in the end
you could say there are four committees
that should leads um the data omnibus.
If in the end someone is so crazy and is
really giving this proceeding to uh four
committees. My guess would be we will
have a first conclusion in the
parliament probably in 29 or 2030 maybe.
Maybe maybe um so probably best to avoid
that. There's another idea floating
around. We have a new rules of procedure
in the European Parliament which would
allow at committees. Um if you look back
last term we had this special committee
which was called our eidor which my boss
was the reperator for which we think was
a really good idea and it worked very
well and it would be almost perfect for
um the uh data omnibus but of course it
would mean that other committees are
losing power need to give away uh
publicity and so on. Um which brings me
to the third option which I think in the
end will be the most likely outcome that
they are actually splitting um the um
data omnibus and basically giving um the
parts to the um previously responsible
committee. So again all GDPR stuff would
go to Liberal and in the end you are
putting all um arts again together and
then you are going in the trialogue with
the council and probably there we will
have or would have um different work
sessions basically because the
parliament would have a team of I don't
know 80 people or 100 people or I don't
even know how many um and you can only
do it like that But um to my knowledge
um it's still not clear um what um is
happening and again the timeline but
also
um the uh let's say
the heat of the discussions and the
likelihood of certain outcomes really
depends strongly on which of those three
options um is being taken. My second
point would be um that of course now um
that the first reactions as we have
already discussed have been so
strong.
um it becomes as I mentioned already
rather difficult um to find a middle
ground to in the end say yeah well uh I
didn't mean it that way um it's not so
bad and maybe by just changing a word um
it's already fine and my audience or the
people that I'm fighting for are no
longer at risk and so on um especially I
guess for the social democrats and for
the Greens the room for maneuver is
extremely slim now. Um and again I do
believe that certain points from Johnny
and Mark and so on are correct or at
least are things that we should um
discuss but um yeah without saying it's
good or bad or whatever I'm just wanting
to make the point the um room for
compromises um became so slim and it
brings me also back to my initial point
that an omnibus should be something
extremely technical um that uh yeah now
a highly politicized um process uh is
again
not easy to handle and potentially
will take some time and this brings me
to my third point and indeed you
mentioned it yourself um at least on AI
we have a strict um deadline basically
which are the high-risk um AI systems
which would become
um or this part of the AI act would
become applicable um in summer in August
um next year. And of course uh in order
to give a little bit of legal certainty
at least the AI part should be kind of
adopted uh shortly after Eastern let's
say but um yeah this would mean that
hopefully the parliament gets its act
together fast. uh I don't know if they
are able to do it talking on experience
um then uh we would really quickly start
to discuss in the parliament uh what we
want to do again I mentioned already how
tricky it became now with certain
stakeholders also in the side of
industry making very very uh general and
strong um uh statements and then
probably at least in February February,
end of February, midFebruary also
because there's the Eastern holidays and
so on. We would already need to start
with the trial. Look, um based on all my
experience B in my eight years working
in the parliament, this is impossible.
But I would not say it's completely
impossible because if there is um
political will, miracles are always
happening. And of course you could say
even for now the social democrats if
there is really a political signal from
prime ministers like in Spain or in some
other countries or really senior um
social democrat uh leaders who are
saying okay no we need a quick win for
Europe for democracy for whatever
then um maybe maybe it's possible maybe
then the parliament is really willing to
um settle on on certain things. But even
then I guess in the data part especially
the legitimate interest um discussion
will take a little bit of time and I
guess there the easiest way out would be
to connect it probably to some other
safeguards maybe in upcoming laws or in
uh other omnibuses or whatsoever because
so far I don't see my leftwing
colleagues in the parliament uh to
support something like that. Um but yeah
in my third point the final um issue
that I want to mention is that when it
comes to the council there is of course
a lot of pressure in particular from
Germany but also from Macau from Renew
France and many others that really want
also domestically show their companies
that now it's becoming easier that
compliance costs are decreasing And
again I'm not making any judgment here.
I have a strong opinion but I keep it
for me now. Um the member states feel
that with this simplification package
they could do that. So they could send a
signal to industry that now the
regulatory burdens are becoming less. So
I think especially from council side we
will see a lot of pushes and uh constant
even for the data part constant um yeah
signals that we need to do faster and
maybe in the end they are even willing
to make certain compromises in order to
um allow a faster adoption um by giving
up certain parts um that they are not so
fond of. Um, this of course would be a a
potential way out to to match this yeah
crazy timetable.
Um, that was a beautiful explanation of
how the kind of Brussels machine works
this kind of big clock where everything
needs to fall into place otherwise
things don't u come out on time quite
literally. Um and um at the same time
you mentioned this juxaposition with the
idea that you know you also have 27
national governments of which some are
very very um strong in making their
voice heard and um connecting to this
idea of a European
kind of
togetherness in making a decision and
the more national idea of sovereignty
which even if we're talking about
Europeanver We're still talking about a
national concept. Um, you have just
visited Berlin, uh, quite close to where
I'm being right now. So, I, um, I feel
it quite close to my heart. And you've
been here to talk about digital
sovereignty with, uh, or like hearing
two very important people that you also
mentioned in your in your talk here. Um,
President Mron from France and of
course, Councelor Merz from Germany. Um,
can you bring us the news? What's
happened there? And how does this kind
of clock into the clock that we've been
describing about the European Union?
>> Yeah. Um, I
need to take care that I'm now not
giving a kind of keynote because it's
another topic dear to my heart. um that
AXA and I as I said at the first
question we are now fighting for for
basically yeah aid to he already 15
years so making Europe stronger making
us more resilient and so on what I'm
currently like to do is to just go back
a little bit um in history short history
um and just to say that the talk on um
digital soenity and resilience is
basically as old as the internet. Um,
and there were many phases where there
was at least a little bit of public
discussion. The latest one was um, in
2019 2020 when um, Commissioner Brutau
was really pushing for it and again AX
and I were basically from the beginning
involved especially him. Um and we
suffered a lot because uh all those
promising um initiatives quickly died
down. Um and therefore and this brings
me now to the um um to the uh status quo
to the present. um for us is of course
so relieving and so nice to see um that
finally digital serenity made it on the
center stage that finally our topic that
we were fighting for so many years um
became basically yeah the common sense
um opinion or position um and this
brings me to the summit of course we
were quite involved in in the
preparation
especially now as Brussels based people
that are normally quite far away from
national politics. But in this case, we
were involved. We um we saw this um
early paper from France and Germany that
have a lot of also our ideas included
that we were very happy about. Also, our
European way paper that I mentioned
already was quite strongly
um included or integrated. And um then
we went to the summit and yeah we are
kind of between maybe we are super
excited or we are scared of a big
disappointment like so often in the past
and luckily it uh it um yeah became the
first option. Um, of course the
parliament, sorry the summit had also
some dull moments. Um, and yeah, not
every panel there was good, but um, in
particular the speeches from Macau and
May were very forwardlooking also very
concrete. So we were definitely leaving
those bot air discussions that are
basically just uh um dropping certain
buzzwords and no one really knows what
it means. So like let's all being open
or interoperable and then that's it. No,
they were actually quite concrete um
what they mean with um by European uh
what they mean um on data protection,
what needs to be reformed. Mark Shrems,
myself, Boris Pi, Marcus Zebert from
Munich, we're all very happy because M
on stage said that he supports a
riskbased approach that we are currently
working on in Munich. And um yeah, there
were also a lot of other quite
surprising um points um at least for the
public. So this focus on merger controls
as you know mergers or merger policy was
not a big thing in the last years was
more DMA and a few other things. Um
public procurement was clear, but also
sanitization was being mentioned and so
on and actually concrete initiatives
that both countries um want to um want
now to um do and the summit also created
a declaration that in the end was signed
by um all member states and there as an
as someone who is obsessed with better
regulation I was so happy because we had
this situation
that there was an paper on digital
serenity created by the Austrian
government which was not part of um the
program in Germany and of course the
French German paper and in the end they
were merged. So people finally realize
that you can put things together and you
don't need to work in silos and alone
that moment for me was ah finally
finally something is going in the right
um direction and um at the very end of
the summit um there was um an
announcement in a kind of side event of
industry initiatives where basically um
companies like Mistral and SI P but also
startups and I think Zemens, Novatis and
so on and so on where um mentioning what
now they want to do in terms of
resilience, digital serenity and so on.
So yeah to to summarize uh we were very
happy we are
bit more optimistic about our digital
future. Um we were um yeah it is very
promising especially those uh to see
those industrydriven initiatives that
are now um coming out um of the summit
and it will of course depend now all on
the big question how those initiatives
that Mor and Mer were presenting are
being implemented and executed. Um and
yeah, if if really this um um conference
was a kind of Schuman um um situation um
where we really see a big step forward
in terms of the European Union. And
maybe just a final word on
simplification because also
simplification
played a big role um during the summit
for some people a bit too much which
again I would say maybe those people
have a point but yeah simplification of
course as I said is super important. Um
but yeah on some panels it was maybe
presented as a kind of silver bullet
that alone is solving everything which I
don't think is credible as an argument
um or prediction. Um but yeah it's it
was at least quite good to see that the
German and the French government are
there very aligned are also working
quite closely together and again also
underlined quite regularly especially
our digital minister but also the prime
minister and the president um that they
don't want to deregulate they want to
really fix those clear legal problems
and mitigate maybe those um those parts
that are really creating unnecessary
um regulatory burdens without good
effect on civil society. For example,
imperal notification
obligations that are just creating a lot
of extra work without again as I said uh
any any positive net effect in terms of
safety. So all in all I think even on
this part on simplification it was a
rather um good assessment and a good
atmosphere. Um but also here it all
depends now on how those big statements
are being implemented and executed.
>> Wow. It's it's the idea that on the one
hand everyone is talking about making
things simple. AI makes your life simple
in in a way and having multiplatforms
like everything on Google or Messa or
whatever makes your life simple and then
you have this um processes in government
where like someone had to find out that
you could put some documents together
which I guess reveals how unsimple these
processes have become and how that
there's literally like a contrast
between this idea of like we on
simplification and actually this is the
state of things. Um so I I absolutely
loved your your explanation and it
wasn't um obviously a giveaway. It was
just an honest opinion. I'm really happy
that you um could have your Eureka
moment here uh in in Berlin and and yeah
um sadly my lunch break is over
thereafter.
We have to say goodbye to to Kite. Thank
you so much for joining us today, Kai.
>> Thank you.
>> Feeling feeling dank. Then uh this was
all uh for the legal for tech the
podcast.
