Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as I've said many many many
times, this is just a group of students
and many young professionals who are
very interested in anything that has to
do with technology and yes, it's
regulation. So today I'm calling from
Milan where I'm celebrating my
graduation and I'm here to talk to my
friend and colleague Jakario. Hi Jacko,
great to see you.
>> Hi Rosie, great to see you and I'm
calling as from Brussels as usual. Yeah,
>> look very happy about that. But at least
you're not alone from Brussels because
our guest from today is also calling
from Brussels. Happily, I'm told. Hello,
Rocco Savino. Great to see you. Great to
meet you.
>> Hello. Thank you. Thank you for having
me today.
>> It's a great pleasure to have you here.
You were kindly referred to by a great
friend of the show, uh, Vichansatani,
who, um, is with us from Brussels again.
like he he knows that we're here today.
And um I want to know aside from telling
us how you met Vincenzo, but um tell us
how you got to this point of your
career, what led you into this specific
path and why are you here today?
>> Well, uh I come from Italy. Uh as you
can uh uh know and understand from from
my name, uh I studied there for a while.
Uh more specifically, I study at the
University of Studies of Mediterranean
in Reo Calabria and during my bachelors
in law, I started having my uh first
experience abroad. Uh indeed, I had a
couple of Arasmus studio and friendship
in the University of Figo and Granada
and also I stayed in Porto for a while
and this helped me to to give a broader
and European view to my bachelors. uh
dissertation uh which I also brought
thanks to of my my co- supervisor in
Granada uh who actually influenced my
future trajectory in in in academia.
Indeed, he sent me several uh PhD
vacancies abroad. Uh and to be honest, I
just applied to the one that I got here
in Brussels because of a serious reason.
I applied to this uh to this vacancy uh
among them of course the LSTS research
group uh of which I I've been part
during the last three years and uh of
course Vinceno is also part of the the
the group and you know it's one of uh I
would say well known in Europe for uh
digital regulation but in general for
also uh I mean the the the definition is
law science technology and society So a
very long name for the research group
and um broad expertise among the the
members and uh also of course uh another
reason is my supervisor Gloria Gonzale
Fustster because she's one of the most
known professor in data protection. So
when I I saw that opportunity, of
course, uh I applied. And uh last but
not least, uh because of Brussels, uh
with all the contradictions and charm
that make it very unique. Uh and I must
admit at the very beginning I I would
have pursued a career in in the US
institutions instead of academia. while
now I would stay in academia if it were
possible but of course I'm doing my PhD
here. So uh I'm in the last year of my
PhD hopefully I will finish uh this year
uh and yes uh I'm I'm here in Bras I'm
happy to be here and I'm happy to be to
be here today with you.
>> Thank you. And I'm I would like to be
happy as you to be in Brussels, but I'm
not that much. But yeah,
regardless of Brussels, let's talk a bit
about serious things like your research,
like what are you most interested in and
why does it matter? Just give us a
general overview of what you're doing.
>> Yeah. Well, uh I I I have to start from
what I love. I really love technology.
So that's why since the very beginning I
wanted to connect it to to law. Uh so it
cames uh naturally to me to focus on
data protection and AI.
uh and like many PhDs during my journey,
I decided to change the topic of my
research from uh uh something that I I
decided to to start at the very
beginning which was international data
transfer to a more to something more new
but also more challenging which is the
the role of market surveillance
authority under the the AI act and the
potential fragmentation that we could
experience in the future.
uh not only in the context of
crossborder uh enforcement among
different market surveillance
authorities but also
uh in the context of a cross uh
regulation enforcement among different
authorities in different fields. So to
answer to your questions uh this matters
uh I mean I will say that um this
research is important because if you
think about the issue uh we had uh with
the enforcement of uh GDPR uh and the
inconsistent cooperation
uh among different authorities involved
in the enforcement
uh in enforcement of it. I think we can
have some uh problem also in enforcement
of the act. Uh so uh this I think will
be related to uh for both a a more
complex enforcement structure and
because of the different approaches
member states have have been taking in
appointing new authorities or
designating
existing ones uh uh existing as
competent ones. Uh this has created a
situation where you can have a
completely new authority like in Spain
with Aisha
um the agency for the uh oversight of
artificial intelligence. Also you can
have a sector approach with data
protection
um authority superpowers
uh as or superhero in this case as
coordinator among the competent
authorities like in the Netherlands.
Even though in this case it's not
officially yet while in the case of
Spain yes because it was the f the first
uh country that appointed uh a competent
authority for the act and then you can
have situation like in Italy where Grant
has been acting even before the AI act
came into force. uh you for sure you
will remember the decision against the
JPT
um even though now the role is more
limited to personal data matters and uh
and X3 of the act. The point is that uh
when proposal uh of the act uh was
published uh many of us um and also ADPS
and ADBB uh with their joint they joint
opinion uh and also uh the joint opinion
was five of 2021 and uh um there was
also an another opinion just from ADPS
uh 44 of 2023.
And in in both this opinion uh uh the
data protection authority were
identified as the market surveillance
authorities.
Uh
why uh I mean not identified but
suggested as the the market surveillance
authorities uh that should be uh
competent
uh for uh for the act. Um
this is related to the strict connection
uh that there is between personal data
and algorithms for sure. Um and this
strict connection uh could cause also
some overlaps if the respective roles
are not clearly marked. So I think a
research on this is needed not only for
all the stakeholders involved in
including the companies of course but
also authorities that might not might
have not clear yet and probably for a
while uh what role they will play in the
enforcement of the act or in general
when the enforcement of a regulation
crosses into the the field of another
regulation.
>> A point that you highlighted is that um
algorithms and AI of course are highly
dependent on data and that's why the
market surveillance authority for the
Act is likely and um hopefully um
indicated in being um the um data
protection authority. At the same time,
the air act is a product regulation.
It looks like or at least someone
describes it as a riskbased approach
that's typical of for example um
conformity assessment regulations the
the ones u that um talk about the CE
marking and and so are related to
products and in that case we have
markers surveillance authorities. Do you
think that it's fair in something like
an AI system, so a product by
definition, that so much preponderance
is given to an authority, a DPA, which
is most likely to
think in a kind of fundamental right
enforcement um approach and strategy.
>> Uh well, thank you for thank you for the
question. uh
let's say in this case yes I mean you
you mentioned a very very important
point which is related to the
medlay uh uh nature of the act because
um as you know uh the the the market the
act is uh let's say profoundly rooted to
not only to the uh fundamental price
regulation uh but also to product safety
regulation. And this and we can we can
see this from the legal basis because we
have article 14 um article 114 of uh TFU
and we also have article um 16 of the
FEU. So uh that's why we have this
hybrid um hybrid approach uh also in the
um uh in let's say the the designation
or the
uh appointment of these authorities. But
the problem here is also related to the
fact that um in the case of the act
considering the complexity of this piece
of regulation
u due due to the multi-use of the system
is not easy to identify
um uh a specific authority in each
country dealing with AI system in the
market. Uh that's why even if the
deadline uh for communicating the
official list of competent authorities
was um on two of August of 2025.
A lot of countries failed to uh provide
uh the competent authorities in time. uh
even in the case of the
uh even in the case of the designation
um of competing authorities for
protecting protecting fundamental
rights, the deadline was on uh two of
November of 2024 and I remember nobody
or very few countries respected that
deadline at the time. So it I would say
that in this case it was it is more an
abbit. But I mention this because just
because the double nature of the act you
know as I already mentioned. So among
the the authorities the authorities
listed as competent authorities for for
protecting
um fundamental rights there are data
protection authorities in some countries
like in Belgium uh Spain and
Netherlands.
uh and no data protections uh involved
in other in other uh countries like in
Portugal and Lithuania. Uh some data
protection authorities will act as
market sovereign authorities meaning
that they will be uh the major the major
authorities at the national level in
enforcement of the act
uh while others decided to entrust to
governmental agencies. So um here uh I
will say that it's it's not it's not
easy because always there there will be
this um discussion about right based
regulation or risk based regulation
um
and to and and in in um
in in this specific case what I can say
is that the market surveillance
authorities are uh are not new in the U
regulation because from a a purely
enforcement authority perspective, the
designated authorities uh uh should
consider both market conditions and
fundamental rights in enforcing the the
law for AI systems. And of course, the
real enforcer of the act will be the
designated or appointed market
surveillance authorities also acting as
single point of contact. The point is
that market surveillance authorities
are not new as already mentioned. So in
this case there was an explicit
reference to market surveillance
authorities in at EU level in a
directive
I don't remember now the name but it's
the general product safety directive
adopted in June of
92. So the in this case the market
surveillance authorities are indeed
strict strictly linked to the EU product
safety regulation uh as clearly defining
in um article three uh paragraph 26 of
the act which aligns uh those uh uh uh
market surveillance authorities with the
ones of the regulation uh 2019 1020 and
this regulator regulation provides a
framework for market surveillance and
product compliance. So this aspect
contributes to making even more complex
the role of the market surveillance
authorities in the act uh due to the
constant um recall of um of regulation
2019 1020 for tasks and powers of this
authority. Um so I would say that the
challenge for me is to look at the
current at the current situation and
wondering not only about uh crossber
enforcement about market surveillance
authorities but crossborder enforcement
uh crossborder regulation enforcement
where uh this looks also uh to other
field. Uh for instance, talking taking
what you said about uh about that uh
even though the act was drafted with the
intention of no uh
pre of not uh causing a prejudice in the
application of the union competition
law. uh the extensive powers granted to
market surveillance authorities in
accessing all document all documentation
training validation and testing and
testing sets for the development of AI
system uh uh could also impact uh
competition law and uh this is
especially relevant considering that
market service authorities must report
uh without delay to the commission. and
relevant national competition agency.
Any information collected during
activities that may might be uh of
potential potential interest for
enforcing EU competition law.
Implementing the AI act requires an even
greater level of cooperation between the
MSAs and DPAS.
uh who are the authorities involved in
supervising eulo friendly AI and how
will they manage to find an agreement
when their goals will differ?
Well,
uh I will more or less I already
mentioned you uh that we have a
different structure because I mean we we
have a different structure in the
appointment and designation of the
authorities uh or I will say more
correctly different choices that the
countries are uh making and they made uh
and this of will affect
uh will affect also the enforcement of
the act. Um because I think that if you
have an institutional
um
an institutional uh destination
completely different in a country where
you will have um just one authority uh
as acting as market surveillance
authorities as in the case of Spain or
you will have um u a fragment mented
approach, a sectoral approach in the
case of Netherlands with the National
Protection Authority playing a a a
relevant role in the in the enforcement
of the act but playing this role as
coordinator but also um uh together with
other authorities because in the
enforcement also the um the the the
authority for digital infrastructure in
are competent and then there are a lot
of authorities involved involved. Uh and
then you have other counties where uh
for instance uh you will see uh that
this authority are in the end
governmental agency like in thea like in
the case of Italy where you have a
national cyber security agency. Uh so
you didn't appoint a new authority, you
just use an existing ones. And so the
question is why you didn't appoint the
the data protection authority. I think
you didn't appoint the data protection
authority because of course there are uh
some differences. uh if you look at the
independence independence of the data
protection authorities of course it's
something uh unique it's something that
it's unique in the EU law uh because
it's an independence that derives
directly from from EU primary law uh
from uh the charter so and really so
it's completely different that having a
a different authorities where the the
reference to independence to to acting
without any bias uh and independently
uh it's uh from a reference that you can
find in secondary law um and
I'm I'm wondering uh how this uh uh
authorities can can cooperate can find
an agreement uh when their their goals
could be different uh because of course
if there there is a completely different
structure how they can cooperate it's
not the same that we we saw in a
different in um in other regulations
like in the case of the uh the GDPR
where you had you have uh the data
protection authorities and then you have
the DPB so uh you have this structure uh
that is already um uh well defined here
you also have something that is defined
but the different choices uh made at
national level can influence I would say
uh also the
uh the final enforcement of the uh of
the of the act and the the cooperation
between this these authorities because
if you look at them
uh at the
the court of justice at decision of the
court of justice regarding the case the
the case loan meta versus
bundes cartel I think I'm not sure the
pronunciation was good but I try um uh
in this uh case law uh the court stated
that they they should cooperate they
should cooperate by virtue of sincere
cooperation ression. Uh so article 4 of
um DU uh but they have to do that
without ex exceeding their respective uh
uh competence
um because this could could uh in some
way cause some overlaps. Uh but the
problem again is that data and AI are
inevitably linked. So uh we could see
some overlap in in the future I would
say.
Uh and then uh
coming back to the
to the authorities involved and also uh
a step forward for uh wondering about uh
a cooperation about among these
authorities. I I would uh to
I would like to point out uh article 79
of the act uh because in article 79 of
the act is uh present the procedure at
national level for dealing with an AI
system presenting a risk h indeed this
article outlines that in case there will
be a risk to fundamental rights the
market the surveillance authority shall
inform and cooperate with the
authorities uh of Article 77 uh of the
act the article the the so the
authorities protecting fundamental
rights and in case uh there will be an
no compliance and this no compliance
will is extended also outside the
national borders. um
the commission should be informed and
also the the other member states should
be informed the other authorities
uh competent in other member states
should be informed. So in cases where uh
in this case in cases where where an
agreement is not reached uh for instance
uh about a withdrawal of a specific
system presenting a risk in other
countries the commission the commission
can intervene in the cost in the context
of the EU of the the union safe
safeguard procedure uh article 81 H and
by entering into into consultation with
the competent and authority and
evaluating the measure applied by the
authority. Bas based on the results of
that evaluation, the commission shall
uh within six months or uh 60 days uh in
the case of no compliance uh with the
prohibition of the AI act practice uh
referred to article five decide whether
the national measure is justified and
shall notify its decision to the market
surveillance authority of member states
concerned. So the commission shall also
inform all the all the other market
authorities of its decision.
It's I will say
the ADP binding decision of GDPR uh are
somewhat replaced by this new role of
the commission. But we know that we know
that the commission is playing a
a heavy role heavier role compared to
the past in the new uh in a new piece of
legislation. We saw that also in the
DSA. Well
>> wow. It looks like
um from potentially from the perspective
of a business then dealing of an AI
system provider for example dealing with
this puzzle especially when they provide
AI systems in different jurisdictions
for example within the European Union.
um it it looks like it's going to be
difficult for them to follow the pieces
and and kind of fall within the right um
type of compliance because then you know
already in the air acts there are norms
that tend to be I wouldn't say in
contrast with each other but like giving
importance to different values
and different authorities will stress
the importance of different values
differently.
So,
um, and I'm also interested and and
that's going to be my last question
because I swear we will let you go. Um,
do you see a potential um kind of
overlap in potentially a data protection
authority deciding on something
regarding article 22 of the GDPR and a
market surveillance authority deciding
on compliance with the AI act?
Well, uh, yes and no.
So, a very good lawyer answer. Uh,
yes and no. Let me explain that. Uh, I
will say that the data protection
authorities already um
intervened in the past uh you know with
against uh this uh against the AI
system. Uh if we think about it the
the decision uh of Garant to block uh
JGBT in Italy even before the AA act
became into force, you know. So they
have some powers and they access they
already act in uh in this case and it
happened the same with with deep sick
because all the decision we have uh they
came from GDPR they not coming they are
not coming from ACT and we already have
some decision you know uh and I think
also in Germany uh I saw that the Berlin
DBA asked Apple and Google to the list
deepseek uh under the digital service
act if I'm not mistaken in this case
because it's not a classic GDP GDPR ban.
I'm not sure because you know you see
the intricacy of this uh of of this
research and also of this uh field
because it's as I mentioned many times
it's a crossborder
regulation enforcement. It's not just a
crossber enforcement. We had we have to
add this crossber regulation enforcement
and uh I think it will be even more
challenging in the future. Um and coming
back to the to the decision of the um
Berlin Berlin DPA, I think also in
Italy, uh in May of last year, uh we had
such a request from Garant
uh directly to the internet service
provider to block uh deepseek because uh
basically they they tried to block the
deepseek but uh it didn't work. uh but
this was very informal. So in some in
some u way the data protection
authorities uh are trying they tried and
they will try for sure in the future to
uh
to to to
apply GDPR.
uh and I will say not to scream but to
to make that others will uh hear their
their voice. But of course if you think
about it for instance um let's picture
for instance that market surveillance
authority and data protection
authorities are the same authorities.
What are the advantages here? Unified
expertise in fundamental rights impact
impact assessment. Um a streamlined
internal coordination for uh overlapping
uh compliance requirements.
reduce administrative burden for
regulated entities dealing with a a
single supervisory contact and of course
a co coherent interpretation of
intersecting legal provision when we are
talking about data protection and AI. Uh
however this consolidation could
generate also a significant risk and
challenges because we know that data
production authorities are faced
substantial resource constraints
uh and also
extensive workloads of under the GBR. So
if we had also the act responsibilities
uh I'm not sure this will work properly.
Uh but again as we already said they act
it's
if we if we should uh give a a
percentage of uh product safety
regulation or fundamental fundamental
rights regulation
I'm not sure what percentage is higher
you know because if you look uh at um at
the recalls of
market surveillance um regulation I mean
to the to the regulation 2019 1020 and
to the other recalls that are made in
the um in the act I would say that it's
more a product safety regulation than a
fundamental rights regulation and this
is also a problem you know this is also
a problem because yeah okay it's not a
it's like that it's more a product
safety regulation. But then this product
are not just product. This product this
product will uh I mean can cause some
arms can uh uh can have some strong uh
consequence to fundamental rights. So
that that's why it's very difficult.
It's very difficult to have a clear uh
overview of that and that's why I'm
struggling with this research. You know,
>> I can feel your your struggle especially
because yes okay you you you give
importance to fundamental rights but
obviously data protection and privacy is
not the only fundamental right that's
being impacted by an AI system. I mean,
even the right to a cleaner environment
is impacted by the use the massive use
of of AI. So, it's it's it's really
interesting what you're doing and we
really really are grateful that you came
here today to talk about it because
although it's a long conversation to
have, um I feel like the most important
kind of pillars of the structure of this
conversation have been set and and it's
an open problem and I can see why uh
your PhD is taking um the right time to
to be completed because it's impossible
to understand um all of these
intricacies and and this labyrinth of of
authorities and and competences. Well,
um thank you so much Roco for joining us
today. Uh it's a Friday evening
everybody like just saying he's here at
6:20 recording legal protect the
podcast. You deserve a prize just for
that.
>> Thank you Noah. Thank you for inviting
me and yeah of course apart from the the
topic I choose we we should also
consider that uh it's you know uh a work
in progress piece of legislation even
more with the digital omnibus now so
let's see let's see what happens in the
future but thank you for giving me the
opportunity to to talk about it
>> and thank you for this fantastic podcast
because I think it's very very
interesting for everyone who is
interested in data protection but I
would say for everyone in general
because it's very interesting also to
know if you are not working or studying
this these kind of things I think it
will be worthwhile to listen some uh
very interesting and fruitful uh
discussions
>> I have to tell you that we are on top of
79 people's list on Spotify which is I
think amazing knowing that we're number
one in their in their choices I
um it feels that we are a closer
community than we than we thought. So,
thank you very much for for the tiny
tiny plug. Can we also um invite you to
if you want to share something with our
audience, um something you maybe are
working on, something that they should
give a look at, please feel free. We
will add the link in the show notes if
there's something you would like to
share.
>> Yeah. Okay. Well, um
I wrote an article uh on DJ platform. So
in this case, I think you should have a
subscription. Uh but it's a comparison.
And it's a very I would say basic
comparison between market surveillance
authorities and uh data protection
authorities. And I'm working also on the
independence of data protection author
on a piece of paper um uh on the
independence of data protection
authorities
and the uh designation of um
market surveillance authorities uh among
Netherlands, France, Italy and Spain.
But this is not still published. So stay
tuned and probably it will be published
soon but it's not yet.
>> Good. Then we'll keep them tuned for
you. Well, thank you so much for joining
us today. Uh thank you Jako for helping
me. It was great to see you today and
enjoy Brussels on Friday evening. Um
this was all from Legal for Tech the
podcast.
Heat. Heat.
