Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech, the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always very
hear. And as I've said many, many, many
times, this is just for students and
young professionals. We're very
interested in anything that has to do
with technology and yes, it's
regulation. So today I'm joined by my
friend and colleague and lifesaver Jako.
Hi Jacko.
>> Hi Rosie. Always a pleasure to be here.
I'm
>> super happy for you to be here because
I'm also very excited as you can hear
from my voice because we actually
interviewing someone that I heard in
another um occasion and I was like so
happy to finally get some understanding
of this topic that I had to actually
contact him. of course. Um, welcome to
the show, Daniel Hnagle. It's a great
pleasure to see you.
>> Thank you. Thank you for having me here.
>> So, Jako, you can go with the first
question.
>> Yeah. Uh we're very curious to to know
uh you speaking actually and first of
all the usual question that we ask is uh
if you could tell us a bit more about
your career like for example where did
you study and where how did you pick
this path where you're at right now?
>> Uh yeah thank you very much. So I I I
studied the law in in Berlin. Actually I
didn't start with studying the law. I
come from a family of more or less
engineers. So I I started studying
physics. Um but this was soon turned out
to be too complicated and I by accident
friends of mine were studying law. I I
was visiting a lecture and it was found
it very interesting and then
just uh by accident
found myself a law student and um
during my studies I did not really have
so much uh I was a little bit without
orientation. I didn't know didn't have a
career path or something like this. It
was more or less by accident. I started
working um for a lobby group for ICT
industry after my studies that is uh
it's called Bitcom. It's about tech
companies um pursuing their political
interests and so on. And through this I
got involved in provider liability and
all the topics that I'm now very
interested in. So I found my PhD topic
through this and this was a very uh I'm
very glad that it turned out like this
that I found this uh this topic and did
this PhD and then I just stick to the
topic once I was really into this and
after this I became a judge also to
apply for becoming judge was not a long
plan had not been a long plan of mine.
was more or less a during my clerkship I
clerked for a judge and she was really a
role model person in in in that way and
I was really impressed about the way she
handled the things and this was giving
me a motivational boost and to opening
my eyes that I should try this and
luckily it worked out and then um I was
working as a judge for some some years
and uh but in between I switched I went
to the ministry of justice and uh there
I was
um busy drafting the netg and the
implementation period of it. So for 4
years I was like working as a government
lawyer and this was very interesting
times. Um and also of course helped me a
lot with this field which I'm now um
specialized very much in and um and then
I had to make a decision again a career
decision some years ago. I I was had the
opportunity to stay in the government
which is like mean you have a very fancy
offices and you can go go to conference
around the world by plane and so on.
It's very it's very exciting in one way
or I had the opportunity of course to go
back to the judiciary was not an easy
decision but I went back to the
judiciary and now I'm working as a judge
at the appellet court of Berlin and
mostly in antitrust matters and a little
bit also in construction cases and I
like this place. I'm very glad to have
these cases. It's a very nice area. Both
both areas are very nice as as a judge.
Wow. I I'm I was wondering how old you
are because like you've done basically
everything. So, I'm like I'm super
impressed. Um that said, um you did
mention that you work at the Atlet Court
in Berlin. And I think our listeners,
the ones that are not based in Germany
like me, potentially have um don't have
a picture of how the court system works,
especially when it comes to um kind of
digital litigation. So the type of
litigation that has to do with the
digital space and we know that even
antitrust kind of has to do with that
because then if you think about the DMA
and like the whole um Google Meta
problem. Um so um could you just give an
overview to our listeners of how cases
that have to do for example with the
GDPR, the DSA, the DMA, this the
potentially even the Act um will like
are handled in terms of the court system
in Germany.
>> Yeah. So basically we have um a state
and federal structure. So we have
basically it's three court instances we
have. So the first two court instances,
first and second instances at state
level and uh basically all cases have to
go through these uh court instances. Um
we have some exceptions um also for
collective uh redress uh where you can
start at the in the second instance so
to say but basically we have these three
instances and you start at the first
instance and um for most cases after
second instance which is appallet court
um it's like the final destination where
you can go only very interesting cases
of course when it's it has broader
impact and so on can go to the federal
high part but um I think for most
litigants it's very difficult to get
there so they basically know that um in
second instance um the that it's they
have to get their final decision or have
to make a settlement which is also of
course in a very you yeah sometimes it's
a comfortable decision
um because you know that the parties
they really know that if they want to
settle they should do it here
but otherwise Of course it's a it's a
little bit yeah it's a little bit more
yeah you want don't want to make a
mistake of course because it might be
the final decision and so on so it's a
little yeah that's the specifics and u
of course we also have a constitutional
court bonus but in especially you ask
for the digital cases or cases about
digital sphere I I don't think they get
involved so much so the federal high
court bun very very involved and shapes
a lot of um this whole area of law. I
think also with the impact for uh the
European development.
Yeah. But the constitution court is not
so involved in this I think. Yeah. And
of course we we've we've seen a lot of
cases in the digital sphere already in
the in the past and also now. I was
wondering because at the beginning you
said that you did work kind of like in
the ICT um area as well.
Do I know that this may be a bit of um
of a harsh question to ask, but I mean
you clearly understand at least how
these things work because otherwise you
couldn't have worked in this area
before. But do you see that the the
general understanding of judges and
lawyers and in general the legal um
sector in Germany
can support litigation and private
enforcement of laws that has to do with
the digital space.
That's a good question. I mean um
I think uh
when it comes to
individuals having an impact on how
litigation goes, I think it's in the
first place it's the litigants and also
the the the lawyers. I think they play a
and their resources of course. Yeah. So
the parties who bring the cases and and
and the attorneys I think they and and
which strategy they follow I think this
is this is by far the most crucial
aspect and it's the chords they have a
very um I would even say like a second
row function because they the things
have to be presented to them and how you
present them with which strategy and how
how good the cases that you bring on
this is all in the hands of the parties
right and the the the the courts they
can only decide on what comes to their
table and the way it is presented to
them. um is this a good case to to to
make a good decision and so on and so I
think uh yeah the most relevant part is
I still think the the cases that the
litigants can bring and their resources
and but if the courts are in a good
position to deal with it I think uh yes
I I think um I think also what we see is
uh the judicial system proves to be
capable of handling these things it's
too slow and in many parts. But if you
look at the at the quality and uh I
think we can be pretty uh
satisfied overall speaking of course but
it's too slow. So I think um we see also
developments in this field political
developments with the commercial courts.
So we are basically the reforms in in
procedural law they focus a lot on
making things faster and by switching to
fast lane procedures which would be like
um skipping one instance of uh court
instance starting immediately in second
instance. This is a very new thing that
we have also now in in in Germany with
the commercial courts big cases you can
in specific fields you can start in
second instance and this is of course a
huge reform. I think in my lifetime it's
one of the biggest shifts in know how
you can improve the judicial system or
the procedural aspects of the systems.
So this is a a huge step and we will see
but we have to see it just started and
um but I think this is a a way to move
forward if we want to accelerate
uh the judicial system
>> and do you man you mentioned that um
collective representation in like in in
the the kind of meaning of the 2020
European directive also falls within
this system of like um speedier fast
track to the second appelis court Right.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so that would be um both the UK clerk
and the fog gear if I'm not mistaken if
I actually did my homework correctly.
>> Yeah. I mean some of these cases you can
uh injunctions you can also bring uh as
representative actions under in the
first instance right which is
like um consumer protection uh
uh organizations they bring these cases
but others you start in uh second
instance. Yeah. And I think but I think
if you would start these cases also in
first instance then they would be to
would not work out anymore because these
cases by nature take so long. Right. So
this is a thing where you have to uh cut
short the the the instances that you
have. Um
and but
>> I must
>> Yeah. But I I think we still have to
gain experiences with this. Yeah. But I
assume that these cases will take long
and then you have to once you have one
such a case if you if you win it. I mean
we we in the digital sphere I think we
still have to see these cases to be won.
Um in to my knowledge we have two big
cases in in in Germany with with against
meta. Um
and they still have to be there needs to
be judgment and then you have to if they
win the case then you have to um
yeah you have to make a decision how to
distribute compensation right so this
will also be complicated.
So I think this is to be seen. We are
just at the beginning of of of this new
tool or yeah
it remains to be seen and I mean an
important aspect I think is
I think you need some some harm and some
potential damages right to make it more
interesting these kinds of cases because
you want to collect a a group of
consumers who
have an incentive because they think
they can win some monetary uh
compensation.
And with the GDPR this is like a natural
fit somehow because you obviously you
are individually affected and you might
have claimed some damages in a way
because you yourself are harmed. When we
look at other fields of regulations like
the DSA for example there are a lot of
aspects of the DSA where it would be
difficult to identify individual harm.
So I I lack the fantasy a little bit how
the DA might be very
successful there to to bring through
these collective redress um actions
maybe but I'm really
um would be a little bit surprised if we
see I think the GDPR is is a better fit
for these things. Yeah. But talking
about the collective
actions or representative actions I
think I mean what is the basic idea why
why are we interested in these things
right it's it's mostly because we think
things can get easier that other parties
takes a burden to go through litigation
and then somehow I will also profit from
this so we we think okay how can we do
it easier someone else should we must
share the burden it's some idea of
solidarity or of shared burdens and so
on and I think we we should not forget
that there are a lot of other tools
already at place and at work which also
have a similar um um angle like I would
call it like role model litigation.
Yeah. Which can still be individual uh
litigation like for example Max Shrems
or hate aid these people I mean they
it's their own litigation. They are the
claimments and they they they just
normal like 100 years ago they go to
court on on their own right.
But of course when they win a verdict
especially in last instance they go to
the high court or the opening court of
justice even of course this has a much
broader impact right but still it's very
individual litigation but I think this
especially in the field of the DSA I
expect this to be a more a very
um important factor for example NOS's
like hate aid they support uh litigants
to bring such rule model litigation and
when they win of course this will have
the platforms will modify their um
um compliance and so on. So I think when
we all this field of how can we make it
easier, how can we make it
representative that other people also
benefit from litigation. I think this is
an important aspect. How can we support
or is this are there angles to support
such role model litigation such actors?
You need a lot of resources and I'm a
little bit surprised that there is no
billionaire that uh who says okay
everything I have I give to to to
support such uh litigation. Maybe it's
when you die very rich. Maybe this is
not the field which you want to
support or so. But I I'm a little bit
surprised. I think it would would
benefit greatly if if this field
has sufficient support. I think this is
a very important angle of litigation.
regarding uh violations said, do you
believe that some of them are easier to
bring before course when it comes to the
European digital laws and also do you
see like the GDPR as having a kind of
parental aura when compared against
other pieces of legislation?
Um yeah, regarding the last question, I
I don't I I would not think of this like
a parental or I I feel the GDPR is very
specific thing on its own because of
this very individual character of of the
of the harm that you it's about person
suffering individual harm and I don't
see it as a relative for example to the
DSA which is more focused on societal um
risks and more on um collective
interests. I think uh in in the end
um
whether or not some infringements are
easier to to
yeah to prove uh I think bas of course
especially with the DSA we see this
there are a lot of um
um non-compliances which you basically
can see on on your screen once you open
u um a platform and you look at the
interface. uh I take my smartphone and I
I go through a certain process and I
think this is non-compliance. Yeah. So
there are some
aspects which are easier to prove others
can be much more difficult like uh uh
when it comes to the algorithms and so
on whether or not how they work and the
risk mitigation regime will be of course
much more complicated to make a case out
of these things. So yes, there's big
differences. I think
>> um it's very interesting what you said u
also earlier about the DSA and the kind
of like this difference with the GDPR
that the GDPR feels a bit more um
personal especially because like you do
think of personal data something that
really really belongs to you. Um, I was
wondering if um you had an opinion on
also connected to the idea of collective
representation of whether
this idea of systemic risk could become
a bit more of a bull work for consumer
and other representation in the future.
H
I mean I don't know if the lawmakers um
when they passed the DSA whether they
thought about the risk mitigation regime
to become a tool for private
enforcement. They probably thought okay
this will regulators will look at the
risk mitigation regime and systemic
risks and I mean this is a discussion
which is starting now that people think
about it okay maybe we can also use
systemic risks and the risk mitigation
regime of the DSA and private
enforcement and some argue no this
doesn't is not a fit that it is not
possible to bring it as a civil
proceeding but I don't really think
there's a clear um argument against it.
I mean, if you suffer damages through a
company, a platform non-compliant with
the risk mitigation regime, then you
should be able to make a case. Of
course, it will be more difficult to
show the causation between
certain behavior and your the damages
that you suffer because the risk
mitigation regime allows the platforms
actually to to to take various
strategies, right, to to mitigate the
risks. So it's not that you cannot just
say okay you didn't take this risk
mitigation strategy and therefore you
owe me damages you I think you really
must show that um any strategy you've
chosen is uh is non-compliant yeah so
but basically the platforms have some
discretion how they um
want to mitigate risks I think
>> that's true however we are talking about
um yes proportionality but also So
adequacy so like the mitigation strategy
needs to be adequate. And if you still
look for example I'm I'm going to give a
very um well-known example is this idea
that children spend too much time online
on social media and that's because of
addictive algorithms and everything. And
that should be considered a systemic
risk. That's there's no question on
that. I mean it's it's almost told by
the commission. So um then you have I
mean some social media companies I can't
give out names there um do specify that
for example I mean whistleblowers have
been coming up with books about it that
like 90% of their revenue comes from um
the use of social media by um younger
people teenagers
so there I mean what's how is this
strategy adequate if it only cuts off
maybe 10% of the people like um um
surely that shouldn't that shouldn't be
considered adequate can it
um
yes you you would have to make this case
right I mean um there's a lot of angles
which
play into this also which harm of course
the companies they can say there's uh
the there's different levels of of
causation like our services but also uh
um how the parents allow the the kids to
to use these services and so on. Right?
So they will probably argue that it's
not mono um mono not a monocausation and
um especially with use protection you
always have the argument that okay we we
on the one hand we want to protect from
certain interactions but on the other
hand it's also use protection to um
um to enable children to
gain experiences and so on and you can
of course you also in this angle that's
what makes it I think and then you have
a balance of interests and then you can
of course argue I mean this for for
lawyers this is a it's a lawyer's dream
right because you can argue a lot and
that's very diff you don't have a hard
threshold you cannot measure by
mathematical methods
enough use protection so to say there's
a lot of arguments needed and of course
it's for courts in the end sometimes
they must make a decision like is this
an apple or is this an orange and they
have never seen an apple or orange, but
this might be the task of of court. In
the end, it's true. But in this field
with uh risk for miners, it might be
especially when you say excessive use.
Yeah. You want to make a case, okay, you
you you incentivize to to to use our
services excessively.
It's Yeah. It's you don't have a heart.
You cannot take a stopwatch and say okay
just because the kid didn't switch off
the service after half an hour or 25
it's a case it's much more difficult
right than other areas um we're talking
about.
Um I was wondering because you you kind
of um hinted to the decision-m process
of the courts and of course we know the
courts have to be independent and on
that 100% independent from politics of
course and and obviously bribery
hopefully. Um
I was wondering though like in in
deciding on cases if you yourself or or
think that um the general idea of the
public can have maybe a weight in
interpreting the provisions. I'm not
saying that the court will decide as the
public wants but law is an flexible
instrument in that.
Certainly I I mean um definitely it has
an
impact especially when um it comes to um
fields like um to start with an example
like how do you quantify the harm from a
data protection uh violation right for
example in the scraping
uh case against meta so there was some
data breach and you are somewhat
affected because your data has been
transferred to other parties and of
course this is GDPR violation but
the harm that you suffered is very
difficult to quantify
and this is nothing new for for courts
but it's a specific field where
which is a challenge to quantify um the
harm you suffered and of course then um
uh like some consensus in society or in
the public discussion um will have an
effect because uh it actually
uh shapes our understanding of uh
what is a how to quantify a certain
harm. If no one would complain about
this then probably uh courts would have
a different fear of the harm in these
cases and if people really take it
serious and so on then you have a
different this this u there's a effect
of course on public discussion to
decision making
well uh since uh since you said uh you
wrote the neti
G uh what sort of reform would you see
most fit to fixing the pieces of
legislation discussed both with regard
to their substance related enforcements
and remedial measures? Ah yeah that's a
that's a good question because um this
is always a lot of things. First of all,
I would say um the focus now with the
DSA and in Europe and so on has a lot of
been on on on compliance regulation
where a lot of detailed things and and
regulators how to put them in charge and
so on. I think and what what has not
been the focus is of course um private
enforcement of of what we already have.
Yeah. So because we often tend to forget
everybody discusses now it's the DSA and
so on and what we forget is that very
important litigation we already had the
last 20 years like takedown of content
also put back of content yeah the
redress against content moderation for
example just as examples we have seen
these cases we we know them already they
are very successful in in courts and we
didn't need a DSA and so on for and so
what's the what we didn't do with the
DSA is is thinking of uh actually how to
make it easier private litigation And
there are two very important things. One
is international jurisdiction because
when you want to bring a case, it might
be crucial for you that you can sue in
your home country. So because the
international jurisdiction will also be
decisive for which procedural law
applies. So if you really have to sue in
Ireland, you will have to follow Irish
procedural law. You will feel very
uncomfortable. You need a second lawyer
in Ireland. The cost schemes are are
different. and so on. So it if you don't
have a professional background with
resources and so on, you will never do
this. And I think if we the aim of all
our uh digital legislation was to form a
a perfect more perfect union, right? So
we wanted a digital to single market and
we are very far from a company
perspective in this but we are very at
the beginning still when we think about
a digital judicial union. Yeah. So I
would never dare to argue in Italian
courts or in Spanish courts or even if I
would know the language I I would not I
would be very hands off. No, no, no, no.
I I don't try to do this myself and uh I
would be very skeptical. So,
international jurisdiction is very
important and the DSA did not solve it
and the GDPR we have a specific uh rule
for this which allows you to go to your
home country courts. And the other very
important thing is how to serve
documents like when you want to initiate
proceedings you need to serve documents
through courts. And to make this easier,
this is still it's it's not
understandable why the European Union
does not tackle this. I think one
solution would be that all illegal
persons or and also uh all non-consumers
they would be obliged to take part in an
electronic um
system where you can surf the documents
electronically of course and then of
course cross border whole European Union
if you want to do business in the
European Union you must take part in
this procedure
it's uh really
if you invite politicians to the podcast
ask why this topic is not getting more
attention. If you ask the lawyers,
that's much more important for them than
the DSA, these these two things. And um
it's a little bit a shame also of the
discussion around the DSA that everybody
was so focused on these fancy things
like out of court redress and so on. All
these shiny objects, yeah, little
objects which really don't
they do certain things, but it's really
not the big thing that we which is
really important which is how to improve
private litigation. there we should uh
uh so if you ask what should we focus on
then it's this with the DSA there are a
lot of small things that I that there
are things that should be done better um
or where you could do reforms
but these two main pillars are are very
important I think
>> the the DSA is is a European regulation
of course I mean why don't states do
something a bit better in that regard
then like why don't they change their
procedures
>> um
na substantive laws I mean difficult
with the country of origin principle
right so basically this was a very bold
step in in the year 2000 of the of the
union um to introduce the country of
origin principle which was like sleeping
in a sleeping for 20 years it did not
come to action very much and now that
the lawmakers of member states they want
to introduce they say okay for example
this age verification and so on right
Denmark and so on they say okay we want
to have certain specific national
legislation and now they find out oh my
god we can't do it because of the
country of origin principle and uh so
now the country of origin principle
becomes very strong and effective at
practical level it was it was sleepy for
20 years uh there was not much going on
people did not mind it was not I don't
know why but now that everybody tries to
improve crossber enforcement of of laws
and of um
yeah bring litigation cross border that
becomes much more uh relevant
and yeah we still have an also an
unsolved aspect of the country of origin
principle recital 38 of the DSA kind of
tries to in stealth models modify this
principle so I think for scholars this
is a very interesting field to to to to
explore it's a very very relevant part
of the TSA it's very hidden in the
recital
um and it's not clear whether this will
work out uh as a uh commission
thought it might work out. So this
country origin principle you ask why
member states don't do more and of
course this is a
big aspect and also with the um
procedural laws of course you need a you
would need a union uh law to to change
international jurisdiction this is
already u union law governing this field
and also if you want uh to to
serve documents EU wide you would also
need a union legislation to harmonize
Right. So whilst we wait until a
billionaire comes um actually paying our
cases or politician comes change
European law for good. We will ask you
the last question of this podcast which
is do you have a book suggestion, a
podcast suggestion apart from ours of
course um a piece of information, a
legislation that you would say like okay
this is what you should read to our
listeners to understand what we've been
talking about today.
Um yeah I would basically think for also
I think the listeners are mostly young
academics also in scholars judicial
scholars I think
>> young
insight but um LinkedIn I think is a
good place al to to to to keep up to
date um otherwise I think there's a
little bit of lack of of a good exchange
was a really good platform and now I'm a
little bit missing because yeah you
could have very good exchange of of
thoughts on legal issues.
Um
otherwise I think um
what I would suggest is for maybe
students I I tell them as always is to
to to to the cases I would uh actually
these court decisions of European court
of justice and and the high court I
think this is just very very relevant
and it's very thought through often so I
would I think you cannot
spend enough time to try to digest it
and also in which order they make the
argument and mostly it's very very well
thought through and u
uh with the European Court of Justice I
would be especially careful I would try
to think um okay what was really the
question that was uh referred to by the
national court and uh how did the
European Court of Justice how did
reframe the question and so really try
to understand uh what the the the the
courts
thought about there and in which order
they presented the argument. I think the
case law is very
very important to study.
It's very dry dry dry recommendation.
>> No, it's no no we we love it and and one
person once came on this podcast and
said like I'm really scared of reading
legislation but I think I have to which
was in incredible. So I I get your point
like read the case
>> basically of course the lawyers who are
involved in these fields of course they
are the
absolute wonderful point for wisdom and
insight. The problem is that they in
public they usually they tend to be that
it's it's really
a little bit strange because usually
they argue a lot of course and and talk
a lot but I think you can from what they
publish on the websites and so on you
cannot benefit so much from their wisdom
because they don't often don't try to um
yeah be too clear on certain points to
to still have be open for certain
position and so on. So
it's it's it's difficult to really to
profit from all the knowledge that they
have um because they often don't publish
as much as they as they know and as they
can give insight to. I mean not for
free, right? So so it's it's a difficult
how to really get to that wisdom fully
in the public debate. I think
>> that's that's a great point and I and I
loved um since the beginning your as we
would say in Germany airish kite because
it's amazing. Thank you so much um for
coming on this show today. It was a real
real pleasure to talk to you and to
listen to your advice and insightful
information. Thank you Dr. David
Hognagger. Um
>> thank you too.
This was all for legal for tech the
podcast.
>> Thank you. Thank you. Bye-bye.
