Hi everyone, welcome to our event. This
event is brought to you by data talks
club which is a community of people who
love data. We have weekly events and
today is one of such events. If you want
to find out more about the events we
have, there is a link in the
description. Click on that link and
check all the events we have in our
pipeline which is quite a few. So for
example, even today in the evening we're
going to have a workshop where I'll show
how to create a deep research agent. So
check it out. then um you should
subscribe to our YouTube channel. This
way you'll get notified to all our
future streams like the one we have
today. Don't forget to like this video.
It will help to uh it will help
YouTube's algorithm to recognize that
this is a cool video. And last but not
least, we have a Slack community where
you can hang out with other data
enthusiasts. So check the link in the
description. Join our community and yeah
um be a part of it. So during uh today
um today's webinar you can ask any
question you want and then we will be
covering these questions at the end uh
of the webinar. So that's all I have and
Mutlu now the floor is yours. Uh please
um tell us a few words words about
yourself and um yeah go ahead and share
your screen. I am going to share my
screen first.
I think everybody can see my screen
right now.
>> Yeah. And your picture.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um Hello guys. My name is
Art. I'm 21 years old living in Gal and
studying computer engineering in Aras
University. Uh right now I'm working
with the panop institute. It's a
research institute. I'm working as a
artificial intelligent intelligent
researcher. uh studying workers so I'm
not fully time or something like that
and also I should say like
uh today we are going to talk about the
some transition about from human
interloop to agent in the loop. So I
will give a elderly guides the basic
term I will explain and also I will uh
give some tips and advice about how you
can build that or how the people doing
that. So can I start directly?
>> Yeah.
>> Yes please.
>> So the first thing you need the first
thing we are trying to talk about is the
motivation. What is the uh what is the
motivation under this uh transformation
actually? Uh and then we are going to
talk about the basic term. What is the
movement in the loop is this? What is
the strange about it? What's the
limitation about it? And then we are
going to talk about the agent in the
loop. the main topic of our meeting
actually
and after that we are going to make some
compression which one is strange
strength which one is like the most
useful or something like that so which
one is or will be or future or something
like that and we are going to look at
the real example of the agent in the
loop systems actually
and after that I'm going to say uh I'm
going to explain some of frameworks not
so detailed. I'm not I'm not going to
show any cause or something like that
because I want to make this webinar is
fully theoretical and also
understandable
and at the end we are going to make a
summary and future outlook actually some
guesses about the future what's going to
be in the future what could be what
maybe
would be happen in the future and
something like that. So let's start with
the motivation. The motivation be behind
this the motivation behind this
transformation is an actually uh ML
systems are scaling faster than
supervision. So that means we are using
we are developing systems so efficient
and so faster than developing us and
also it means human workflow are too
slow. So we like we still slower than
the you know the agents and the other ML
systems
and also in last five year you see the
news and the other technology news and
the other things the agents are really
really exponential growing up and that's
the third motivation about it
that's not the motivation that's could
be sad or happier for some people but
the motivation will
that this transformation will be
happening anyways if we are prepared or
not. So every developer, every worker or
every engineer should we know this basic
term to keep up with the new trends or
the new transformation. So what is
actually in the loop? What is this basic
term actually meaning? So basically the
every workflow has a like this typical
map like in every workflow that start
with the new information or new idea or
task. So in human in the loop this
information interpreting by the one of
the human let's say it is a developer
and the idea is a app idea one of the
developer interpreting this idea and
then transform transformate this IT into
the output. So this output in our
example is like the application and this
application published by by the stores
publish over the stores and another
thing and the user I mean in another
human is actually feedbacking about this
product and
you know give a feedback for the you
know negative feedback or positive
feedback and then the another human. So
I mean in this example this is developer
taking this feedback and transforming
into the new idea and that's complete
our flow actually our circle. So that's
a loop we need to understand basically
we were working like a 100 years a
thousand years like a managers team
leaders give it the feedback or the user
give the feedback and we are
transforming the ideas to new ideas and
the outcomes.
Okay that's all right. So what the wrong
wrong is uh with that system it's
actually working like a 100 years right
the basically after uh before 20 years
or something like that when the agents
become in our life [snorts] the problems
coming out surface the
first problem is like the context
sensitivity
so humans are trained by the scenarios
so basically if you're a
if you're Uh sorry about that.
[laughter]
If you're an back end developer, you are
trained by for the back end development
but not for the front end. If somebody
wants to you to do a front end, you
can't develop a front end because you
don't own frameworks or you don't
framework work or something like that.
So basically humans are like context
sensitive.
The second is the evolution of the
humans is so difficult. uh some of the
way responsibility is unclear in a
hybrid systems like the humans can't
give a a good report in text in audio in
video or understand let's say for more
solid for example you have an idea for
the project and you want to say
something about the project to the user
or another investor and you want to get
a feedback you can't tell the truly and
directed to about the project because
you have a fear of steel. So that means
you can't evalate your project and you
can't evalate yourself too because you
can't get a feedback.
The last one is most likely the scaling
issue.
I would say the corporates uh while
they're right creating their their name
team or the another teams like uh the
while developing a a programs and when
you want to add the new things set to
the programs for example
zoom let's say there is a uh meeting
program and they want to add a new AI
specification the program they can't
because the normally the back end or
front end developers don't know how to
use ML frameworks and the other thing
and they need to get a new ML specialist
specialization
special or the guy use ML and how to
code ML how to optimize ML or something
like that
they need to buy it that means it cost a
lot because you know it's a work power
it cost you know payment and other thing
and the and other ends we need to know
that the feedback back becomes human
feedback becomes is always a bottleneck
because not the everybody knows what
they are doing or the another in the
another side but uh the not the
everybody knows what they are doing and
uh if the report is false or the another
thing is false going to be the feedback
is false so it's going to be create the
bottleneck so we create we talk about so
much negativity in this page I know but
at the another hands at the Another side
of the metal there is a positive side of
the women in the loop.
So humans are safety critical. They can
find the critical [snorts] critical type
of the of the project or the critical
type. It's critical phase of the project
or the page and they can correct them
fastly. So there is a higher accuracy in
human correction to than the agents and
also we are fast improve like we have a
rapid refinement so we are improve
faster faster and we are making a better
decision than the agents actually. So we
are finding a edge cases and making a
faster and better decision than the
agents.
But in our world in our time zone
actually there is an like
uh there is an another type of the human
agents artificial intelligence agents
after the uh LLM. So growing up the
agents come out our life and start doing
the job like [snorts] and uh get out get
out of us to the circle outside. So what
the agent in the loop is what the
actually agent is what the core idea is
the basically the agent makes make
itself the planning reasoning tool using
monitoring and self evolation that's
means the everything we are doing it
right now in while we are working on the
task the agent make itself they get the
idea they create a plan and make a
reasoning at the same time they're using
the tools while they're uh they're using
the tools where they are uh explo
explore
they answer the idea or answer the
problem and they are getting feedback
from the human or from the another agent
and they are self evolated
so that's a loop diagram I explained
before the page actually there is an
goal let's say the goal is developing a
program basically
they are interpreting idea themselves
And they are making a plan and the
reasoning on the background themselves
and they are give us out with the tool
usage actually. Then the another agent
for example this agent is a bus and the
first agent was a like the developer.
The bus agent execute this program and
observing the program output and give a
feedback to the developer agent and the
developer agent evate itself and create
a new task or create a new version of
the program and the loop is closed like
that. So that's so close to our uh human
loop I know because it should be like
that. the on the other hand uh it is the
feature we need to understand basically
so uh what are the differences which one
is best actually let's make some
compression about it the of course we
need to sell it uh I'm not going to say
the every side about the topic because
there is so much side about it social
side and the other sides uh we are just
human they are just robot they can work
724 or something like that no we are
directly objective talking about it. Uh
they are more faster than us basically
because they can focus only one job one
time but the human mentality is actually
focusing a multi-
task in one time. They are most scalable
because uh when you change the prompt
they are directly adapt to the new task
or something like that. But we need to
train train about the task and another
thing
at another time they are more uh we are
more expensive than that because uh
about the scalable thing like uh if we
need a new train we need to get from
school or get from the tourist centers
and that cost for the you know bus or
company or another thing
but in the reliability
like monitoring and observing they are
even we are even actually uh that is the
most important point for me to uh
everybody needs to understand why the
agents can't replace us because the both
of sides need a feedback and monitor the
output monitor and observe the output to
to get a feedback and self evolate
that's the most important thing for me
to uh everybody needs to understand that
to understand why I'm seeing saying the
wall things
that is the wall table when you want to
see the you know the what's really
changed what's really not uh so change
so basically I don't explain the
portings or uh something that table the
accuracy the agents is more accurate
when they're optimized the transparency
we are more transparent than the agents
because the LLM actually blackbox in the
another time. uh they are more adaptive
as I said and we are not and the
trustful trustful like we are more
trustful because we have a transparency
because like the LLM is still a black
box for us the and the agents are still
we don't the things we don't know how to
work so basically we are trying every
time to optimize it but we don't know
how so it's like a experiment for us so
we are more trust
We talk about so much thing about so
faster I know but uh let's look at the
real world examples and uh let's look at
the real world example and see how the
site is working in the real world. So we
have a medical diagnosis ensuring
patient safety. That means like we have
a doctors they can
regulate us to to get out of the
sickness or something like that and they
can ensure our safety
and uh the another example is like
autonomous vehicles
like that's the example for the RA rare
age cases because the most of the
important thing in our life we are using
cars so much and after the Teslas come
out in the industry in the American or
something like that we can say the
autonomous cycle term is coming in up
coming in up in our life and uh we are
talking so much about it but the still
after five or 10 years I don't know how
much year is that but still the
autonomous cycles can't understand the
rare age cases when should they stop or
the can't answer the ethical questions
or something like That and the third one
is the manufacturing. Actually
we need to understand that uh if the a
if we are not saying the exception to
the agent uh agent can't handle the
exceptions. So every time in a
manufacturer industry needs an
supervisor like a industry engineer
engineers or the bosses or another
another person who is responsible for
the handling the exceptions
but the agent in the loop has also real
world examples we are using that. So the
first one the banks use agents the LLMs
and the ML ML uh systems for a fraud
deduction that's very easy to understand
because they are selfate so when they
are getting uh when they are see the one
Freud attack or one Freud try they
understand this
they understand this while when they're
analyzing that attack or when they see
it they understand this there's a Freud
like I need to save it when I see that
you know I need to alert the people or
something like that. The recommener
systems they're using MS system and the
agent system for the recommendation
system too. The Netflix, Spotify or the
another application you know they're
using that the main thing is
they are creating model about you to
make a recommendation. They know you in
some way or in in the meantime they know
you and they understand what your
preferences is in the application and
they they give they give an examples or
they give an recommendation
and the smart logic and IoT we cannot uh
you know we cannot just border this
example smart logic and IoT uh I can say
they can make a realtime coordination
with the tracks and the other things and
they can create a mapping or the optim
optimized mapping for the logic logistic
but on the other hand we need to look
like that the agents can create a real
time coordination right so the basically
CEO or the seale uh seale buses or sea
level managers can create real-time
coordination too the main thing is like
in the what I'm see what I'm saying is
what I'm saying is like they create a
real-time coordination at the C sele
create a real-time coordination too.
There is of course the another task they
do that but but the basically over the
surface we need to understand the agents
can replace the CEO and they can uh
manage a companies like maybe the little
one big little big one like they can
manage it but right now they are they
are managing the like cargo systems and
the another system or the IoT systems
right now.
So
how that transition is going right now
before the LM's coming coming out we
were in the human in the loop. So we are
everywhere. We were everywhere you know
but right now we are doing doing a human
on the loop.
We are trying to uh stay on the loop but
we don't know where we are
in the in the near future. We are going
to be in the over the loop like we are
going to make a supervisor thing fully
not developing not as a worker work or
something like that.
What does that mean is more like
uh we are we are the one who is give a
feedback to the you know agents like
when the agent make a posting we are
going to say that's false you need to
selfate yourself don't do don't do like
that anytime in the future also we would
say the rare age cases to the agent and
h the agents work like that too like
exception handling handling we can say
the exception to the agents over the
loop and the agent correct himself for
that exception.
Let's look at the example of the agent
in book also they are the same topic as
as they are this under the same topic of
the human over the loop. So GitHub
copilot is a good example of two human
over the loop at the same time agents in
the loop because agents in the loop but
humans over the loop like in GitHub
copilot the basically is working like do
you say the agent what you want and the
agents creates a codes or explanation
about the code and you accept the code
edit the code or reject the code. So
what is uh what is going on in the loop
is the agent planning reasoning tool
using and the evolating or feedback
itself and selfate itself but in the
another time the agent use alone for us
to create a code or applicate the code
on the E day so that means we are giving
the we are the decision center not the
agent is a decision center actually so
the agent is on the worker right so that
means is it's human over loop.
Another example is like the model. The
model is a open-source label system
labeling programs. The role of the agent
is like identify the key samples and
then labeling labeling the I don't know
image text and then another thing. But
in the other hand in the meantime we are
cor we are cor we are making a
correction about the labels and we say
you need to label this truly you need to
label this like that and something like
that and the agents in the program in
the model the model agent actually evate
itself and make a correct labeling. So
that's another example for the human
overs. We are the decisions that not the
uh not the workers or something like
that. We are not doing actually
anything. We are just doing it's false,
it's true. Make a decision and go on.
So uh we were talk about so much about
the things I want to give a a little
break about the theory or something like
that. So we can talk about the
frameworks and another thing who can
enter to a cases for the agents or who
want to start the developing the agents
in the loop systems.
Uh so basically that's a that's this
five framework is very popular at this
in in this time. So they can use it they
can create project with them or
something like that and they are beside
of the open AI they are fully open
source. I think I am going to start with
the lang chain and langraph they that's
a good soft that's a good they they are
a good framework to start the agent
system at the other hand they can they
are so basic you can use in python and
create a stateful reasoning models or
just the agent models at the other hand
if you want to create a multi- aent
orchestration
the what I mean is the a lot of agents
talking coordinating each each other and
doing a one task or one big project. You
can use a auto gun again or basically
you can use a crew AI for a role based
agents. For example, I'm right now
developing um Bob I didn't make it today
but it's going to be used crew AI
because it's actually the co-host role.
it's take a co-host role in my uh talk
shows or in my standups or in my podcast
and also uh that means I need to use a
crew AI.
So the what's we are learning today in
this short webinary
we learned actually human in the loop is
a strong that's so much uh good things
in the human in the loop but at the same
time we are not cale
so that means we are slow and um without
a good feedback or something like that
we can't evolate itself we can't evolate
ourselves
but it Other hand agent in the loop put
the agent at the center. So the agents
can evalate itself very well. They are
not so slow. If we optimize it well they
are working well than us [snorts]
actually. That means agent drive loops
is coming in the way and that's working
in the real world too. Right now there
is a agent loop system and we are using
it at the same time. uh you need to make
a decision like when you need to make a
decision about should I get my project
woman in the loop to do agent in the
loop you need to look at the four
critical keys or critical shift if you
need a speed scalability cost and
transparency or reliability
like just look at these four keys and
decision and make here make a decision
about that. Yeah, I can change these
four things and I can change my so I can
change my application women into loop to
agent in the loop.
So the basically is a feature for me is
agent plus human supervisor that means
human woman human over the loop not
fully autonomy but safe human guided
models going to be appear in the near
future and we are going to see it we are
seeing right now too
as I said in the future we are going to
see the like the woman over the loop
system multi- aent system Maybe upgraded
system like the not one agents going to
be work in one task the agent team going
to be work under one task but we are
going to still supervisor this
supervising this agents at the same time
that's a safe and that is the safest
option I think we have as my based on my
research right now so that's all
that's all from me thank you for
listening me I think I create a good
base for that the agent in the loop
agent the woman in the loop and the
catastrophe in the news what you're
saying or what you're seeing in that so
stay curious and build responsibly
and that's the link for the source my
accounts and other things
I'm going to check what you have on this
QR code uh but you have um you showed us
a table um Yeah,
>> with somebody. Can you go back to this
table
>> please?
>> Um, so here Yeah, I had some questions
like so you said uh
um like when I looked at this I I
thought like wait a minute like why
accuracy medium for humans and high for
agents and you said like you add added
like kind of disclaimer that it's
optimized agent right?
>> Yeah. So how do we optimate optimize
agent in this case? Like how do we make
sure accuracy is actually high? Cuz from
what I see typically
humans
um cuz for them sometimes like accuracy
is better. Um so how do we
>> optimize agent and maybe how do we use
humans to optimize agents?
>> That's actually actually based on the
task, right? uh
let's say there's a test the agents can
do like repeatedly like I don't know
there there's a task about the writing
an excel writing a data index right and
the the task is about create a data from
the zero and you need to write exel this
data to train a MS
when the human needs to create a data He
needs the idea first what what data can
be like that or something like that and
the supervisor of this woman
let's say the supervisor of this woman
so bad to explain something or something
like that or there is not enough
information about that about the data or
something like that the accuracy will be
not enough for the project or something
like that but at the other hand
the agents are [snorts] high Because if
you give a proper uh prompt and also if
you op uh if you set the settings of the
agent properly like temperature like if
you want to create a create a creativity
tax you need to make higher the
temperature basically and if you don't
want it you want to strict the rules you
need to set the temperature low so
they can create meth this repetitive
test task normally good and they are
making that uh accurate
so that's basically based on the test
okay
>> yeah
um so I just have a story from my
previous experience um so what we we
used crowd sourcing
>> for evaluating search results so imagine
there there's some sort of search system
in e-commerce and you can use a crowd
sourcing provider um you give a task
okay here are the some here are some
search results and please tell if this
result is relevant to this query if
somebody's looking for iPhone and then
we show um I don't know Samsung like is
it relevant or not like and then they
say oh it's not relevant
>> and then uh we replaced it with LLMs and
it worked much better uh because it's
faster, it's easier to iterate.
>> Uh but I still think sometimes we need
humans, right? So it's not possible to
completely remove humans from um I was
trying to say the loop but like from the
interaction with agent right
>> the best thing is that we are seeing so
much news about the the agents going to
replace us agents going to replace
developer or something like that. No,
it's it's can't it's it's not possible
actually for this time because they
can't do some of the works they can't do
we are not give allow us to do works
like by themsel actually they always
need a supervisor things they always
need a feedback human feedback because
they don't understand the things they
don't understand what they are doing
actually they just understand they they
don't understand the thing but they know
how to give a ordinary output structured
output they know how to give a output
like JSON text or paragraph. So they
always need a human supervisory human
feedback
but at the other hand they are good at
like the repetitive task right now and
they're good at the team of agent is
good at like the at the other task we
are doing right right now.
>> Mhm. Okay. Well, I don't see any
questions um on Slido.
Um so at the end we have your QR code.
This is how you can find you, right? Um
is this a part of your um research that
you do? Is is are you doing masters
right now?
>> No, I'm doing it bachelor, right?
>> Bachelor. Okay. So is it part of your
research that you do at the at the
>> uh actually it is it is my interest
right now. I'm working on the agents too
in my work and uh beside of the work I'm
developing agents the ML systems and
tiny ML projects.
>> That's cool. [laughter]
>> Okay, I guess then that's it. I don't
see any more questions. So, thanks a
lot.
>> Yeah. Um if somebody has questions, so
here's the QR code. I checked there is a
link to LinkedIn and that probably would
be a good place to ask you questions,
right? Yeah, there's a source for the
presentations that will also upload the
presentation too. So,
>> yeah, I can see it there.
>> Yeah. Okay. Well, thanks a lot and uh
thanks everyone for joining us today.
>> So, yeah. See you around. Bye. Bye. Bye.
