[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello, I'm Tom Parker and welcome to
Voices from the SEPs Ideas Lab. In this
episode, I spoke with Professor Maria
Leptin. Professor Lemp is president of
the European Research Council and chairs
the ERC's governing body, the ERC
Scientific Council. During our
interview, we discussed how to structure
a large-scale initiative on AI in
Europe, the funding required, and how to
attract top talent into research and
academic careers. I hope you enjoy the
episode.
Well, hi Maria. Thank you very much for
coming to talk to me today. Hi Tom. Good
to be here. So many pressing issues.
Great to be able to discuss them. Well,
absolutely. And and one pressing issue
is that there's been discussions about
largecale AI initiatives that Europe
needs to create. Um there have been
certain examples given. Uh do you think
there should be one more like CERN for
example, more like the European
Molecular Biology Lab or yet another
sort of governance model?
Interesting questions and I may or may
not be the right person to have a view
on it. I mean actually I think the right
people to have a view on it are the AI
researchers because you know as the ERC
president that's our philosophy. the
researchers on the ground know best.
Now, as you've said, names like CERN for
AI have been mentioned. Also, EML,
European Molecular Biology Lab, has been
mentioned.
They're somewhat different. CERN is a
big infrastructure that has one place
and lots of people come to it. AI is
very different. Mhm. You know, you can
have dispersed infrastructures. EML is a
research lab with a defined aim of
supporting molecular biology. Again, AI
is everything. Yeah. So, that kind of uh
closing in top-down definition
doesn't make sense to me. I really think
um the researchers know best and
surprise surprise the researchers have
come up with their own solutions
already. There's two one used to be
called CLA where L stands for labs and A
for AI and so on. It's now called Karen
and the other is called Ellis where L
stands for learning or again I can never
remember. These are
grassroot associations of researchers
who've got together to figure out what's
best to promote and support AI in
Europe. And they're amazing. They have
programs for training. They have
projects. They have policy.
It's there. All that needs to be done is
to trust the researchers and let them
get on with it and shower them with
money if possible. Do you think there
needs to be more money showered upon
them?
Well,
you know, stuff costs money and they do
need more infrastructure. They do need
more computing power even though Deep
Seek Quesno shown that it may not have
to be as much as we initially thought.
Um but there needs to be more money.
There also needs to be more money for
fundamental research. I was talking to
um a researcher in the field and she
said, you know, we shouldn't be so
obsessed with catching up. We should be
obsessed with allowing
the minds that we have to make the next
discovery that will allow us to make the
step after the next or even that. So,
you know, invest for the future future
rather than trying to sort of catch up
now. Do you think there's also perhaps
an issue around talent and and if so,
what would you advise be to make
academic careers more attractive to top
talent in Europe?
Well, again, you know, money helps.
Okay. And it's very hard to compete with
top industry. We see that in the in in
in in in academic circles, not only in
AI, it's extreme there and not only in
Europe as well or No, not only in Europe
as well. It's the same in the US. You
know, the uh top
uh companies they they compete big time.
So, we we can't we can't actually
compete with those salaries. But there
are people who go into this kind of work
not for the money they earn but for the
freedom to discover and the freedom
that's the point. Freedom freedom
freedom to pursue your ideas. No strings
attached. Little bit of long-term
perspective. You know if you want to do
risky stuff you can't be expected to
write a report report after half a year.
So
stable funding with complete freedom
that's what makes an academic career
attractive. Well you talk about freedom
but there's speculation about uh the
reduction of independence of the ERC uh
in the next uh multi-annual financial
framework. Um what's your position on
that?
Well, I think what
the greatest concern about the next uh
MFFF is
is that
research won't be protected from annual
uh reconsideration. So that gets back to
what I just said about stability. So
really a good research program needs
long-term stability. And if every year
there might be a chance that there's
only half as much money, we can't commit
to funding the researchers. So that's
the greater concern
that we really need a ring fence budget
especially for fundamental research
independence governance.
The ERC was founded
to be different from what was otherwise
done. Otherwise, there wouldn't have
been a need to fund something else. You
know, there were there was a research
program at the EU level. So, it was
founded to be different. Um there wasn't
enough time to give it a tailor made
structure. So, it had to run with an
agency. Yeah. And of course the agency
reports to the commission quite rightly.
You know democratically elected
government with an executive body the
commission has an agency but it doesn't
it's not tailor made whereas what makes
the ERC successful is exactly that it
has its tailor made processes. So if you
think about it makes a lot more sense to
think what is it that will allow this to
flourish further. I think that's that's
the point that one really needs to think
go back to basics and think what works
best when you have look at other global
regions and the research councils that
they have set up you know what are they
perhaps doing well that the ERC needs to
do more or are there or is there is the
ERC sort of leading and others need to
follow as well. So let me be clear. One
thing that the ERC is doing
fantastically well and that is never
under threat is the actual evaluations
and selection the peer peer review
process. Yeah. And it does it very well.
details about the process. It may do
better than some others but the process
as such is
what makes out the core excellence of
any such funding program and that is not
unique. So my own country I'm from
Germany has the DFG same process and
they're completely independent from the
ministry. Ministry provides the money
and then leaves them alone completely.
in the US. I mean, the US is currently a
bad example, but we're still hoping that
their rules and their checks and
balances will pro uh will protect them.
Same thing. NIH, NSF, same thing. And
then private foundations like the Howard
Hughes in the US or the Welcome Trust in
in in the UK, same process. So there are
many examples of what works and um you
know all of these organizations show
that they can uh fund top researchers.
So that's fine but there is
implementation you know the nittygritty
dayto-day stuff that should be there to
serve these processes. So then if you
had a as our our leaving question if you
in say 30 seconds could really have a
call to action about what needs to
happen on the implementation side that
you've just said what needs to really
really improve here. Um what would it
be?
Well I think an independent body needs
an independent structure and agency to
work with them. And you know there's
fantastic people. So I I
I don't have a recipe because that's not
my experience. But um I think that's it.
A a body that reports to the other body,
the governing body that sets the
strategy. Well, brilliant. Maria, thank
you so much for your time today. It was
an absolute pleasure speaking with you.
Thank you.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
