[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello, I'm Tom Parker and welcome to
Voices from the SEPs Ideas Lab. In this
episode, I spoke with Laura Nurski.
Laura is a quantitative social scientist
and an associate research fellow and
head of program on the future of work at
SEPS. During our interview, we discussed
how the division of labor will be split
with the ascension of AI, what jobs are
most at risk, and which will thrive in
an AIdriven future. I hope you enjoy the
episode.
Hi Laura, pleasure to have you here. uh
glad you could spend some time with us.
Hi Tom, it's great to be here. Well,
look uh there's been a big discussion
around the integration of AI and the
labor force. So I want to ask it's a
pretty big question but how is AI
reshaping the division of labor in the
workplace? That's the key question Tom
that everyone's talking about. So let me
answer that by first explaining what we
mean by a division of labor. So by
division of labor we mean how we
allocate tasks between different people
who have different skill sets or
different seniority levels. And I'm
going to make this very concrete by
giving you an example of podcasting.
Okay. Podcasting is a process that has
many different activities or tasks. uh
starting with thinking of topics to talk
about, finding guests, scheduling the
guests along with the host, hosting
itself, scripting the episode, editing,
um publishing, and then communicating.
So, there's many many different tasks
and how you allocate those tasks to
different people is what constitutes a
division of labor. You can think of
bundling all of those tasks into one
job, but you you can imagine that such a
person would have to have a very diverse
set of skills, right? So what usually
happens in organizations is that we
divide those tasks among different
people. Um at SEAPS for example we've
allocated the hosting to you and the
finding of guests and topics to me and
we have some people helping with the
editing and and and the publishing. So
the question is now whether AI is going
to change this by making some tasks more
accessible to people who didn't have
those skills before. And concretely we
see tasks like programming, writing um
becoming more accessible to people who
who don't have the full skill set that
used that it used to take to become a
programmer or a writer or a visual
designer. So to answer your question is
we see some tasks being becoming more
accessible to people who don't have the
expertise and that might lead into a
shifting allocation of tasks across job
roles. But how it's actually going to
take place and be shaped, we don't know
it just yet because it's the result of
many choices that we still have to make.
But but but in a way, so there's there's
obviously pros and cons to it. One pro
might be that it lowers the level of
entry for someone to take on a new
skill. So if we're talking about the
creativity in podcast, for example, you
know, it lots of people might be put off
if they don't think that they can do all
of the tasks. They're not they're not
able to be adaptable to all of them.
that suddenly they can use AI to be very
proficient at one particular area. So
they could take on more, they could
learn more, right? No, definitely. So
this this recomposition of tasks in jobs
actually creates huge learning
opportunities for people. Um especially
if AI were to automate some of the more
routine type of tasks that would leave
room in your job to take on more of
those creative tasks. And that's
actually how on the job learning
happens. We don't necessarily have to
send people off to trainings to get new
skills for specific tasks. We can
actually slowly introduce new tasks into
current job roles which is called job
enrichment and which creates
opportunities for on the job learning
for people. Yeah, absolutely. Well, now
I want to I want to turn to some of the
risks though. what jobs or perhaps what
areas of jobs are most at risk and then
let's end on a good note and talk about
the areas that will thrive under the
sort of new AIdriven future. Yeah. So
instead of at risk I would say exposed.
So we can identify occupations that are
exposed to AI meaning that some of the
tasks in those occupations are
especially
suitable for for AI. uh whether it means
that AI can fully independently do those
tasks is another thing. Usually,
especially now with the generative AI
type of um support, we we see actually
people people using these tools to speed
up their tasks but not fully automating
them. Um so, so it really depends on the
on the type of technology uh to see
which occupations are exposed. Like I
said, the generative AI type of uh
technology exposes jobs that consist of
um tasks that have to do with language,
that have to do with with coding, uh
that have to do with image generating.
So things like writers, editors,
programmers, visual designers, these are
all jobs that are that are exposed.
Whether that means that we will need
less of those people is a whole other
matter because for example you can think
of if programmers become much more
productive which we do see in
experiments that a AI support for
programmers makes them program much
faster. This could also mean that the
tools they produce or the apps or the
websites become much cheaper to produce
and it might actually mean that the
demand for apps and websites is going to
increase a lot. Maybe in the future,
instead of getting an app from the app
store, you'll get your own personalized
app created by a programmer who is using
AI tools to do this really quickly and
really cheaply. And that might actually
lead to a higher demand for programmers
instead of a lower one. So, uh does
exposure doesn't necessarily mean job
destruction. And then there's other
types of AI that are not the generative
AI types of large language models but
the older generation of machine learning
uh AI which can now be also embedded in
robotic systems. For example, we see in
manufacturing context AI algorithms
being trained to visually inspect the
quality of products on an assembly line
and being able actually to pick off
which products are are not of high
quality enough. So quality control uh
this of course exposes very different
types of jobs to automation. So a lot
more of the the physical type of
activities and then to get to your final
point on which jobs are considered to be
relatively safe for now. I think you can
think of those jobs that that still have
the unique human capabilities that AI
doesn't have yet. For example, the
building a relationship with a person
which which is very much part of your
job. Absolutely. We go way back. We have
a few podcasts already and I feel much
more comfortable with you than if there
were an AI robot sitting here
interviewing me. So that that's one of
the capabilities. Empathy, leadership,
um yeah, um creativity, those are the
the still the unique human capabilities
that are that are protecting some jobs.
Also ethics. Some jobs we really don't
want to have AI making decisions on.
Yes. For example, judges. So that that
have to do more with ethics and social
norms about what we accept to be
automated as a society versus not. And
what's interesting is that you said the
word yet there, you know, and and I
don't want to ask the impossible
question, which is when, you know,
things are going to happen. But the
human those human empathetic qualities
and ethical decisions, you know, at some
point I assume that AI will start to
encroach into those areas, but we're
still going to need people to to check
that, right? We still are really going
to trust the human in that part of the
process. Correct. Indeed. So this
question of having a human checking the
output of an AI is extremely important
because we don't want uh people to lose
the ability to judge the output of the
AI. But in order to to to be able to do
that, people still have to build the
expertise and exercise judgment uh in
order to be able to monitor an AI
controlled process. So I think we have
to think about as organizations is how
do we give people the manual flying
hours that they need to still uh uh
reach and maintain their levels of
expertise needed then to control and
check and monitor the output of AI
systems. Are there any other ways that
that individuals uh workers and
businesses can adapt to to what is now a
new reality? Yeah, definitely. I think I
see three big areas how individuals and
organizations can prepare for an
AIdriven uh future. The first is really
uh this bottomup worker adoption of AI
tools. We see surveys coming out now uh
if you ask workers are you using AI in
your daily work tasks. A lot more
workers say yes than if we ask CEOs if
they have implemented AI in their
companies. Interesting. Yes. Yeah. So
there's this gap between what companies
say they're doing and what workers say
they're doing. Meaning that many workers
are using AI in a not very top down
driven uh strategic approach, but really
bottom up um using AI to what we call
job craft. Job crafting is is changing
your job content in such a way that it
aligns with what you actually want to do
at work. uh to build your own skills to
improve the quality of your work to
reduce some stress or to automate some
routine tasks. So this bottomup uh
workerled adoption is is one way but of
course you're always limited to the set
of tasks that have been allocated to
you. So the second approach that creates
more room to shift tasks across jobs is
more of a top-down job redesign strategy
which for example can take place when a
team leader is looking at the different
jobs in their team assessing task by
task which task can actually benefit a
lot from AI augmentation or even AI
automation and then thinking this
through in in um how that what that
could mean for dividing those tasks
between their team members um between
different senior priority levels. For
example, maybe some tasks that would
previously be with senior team members
could shift down to junior team members
or between people with different uh
skill sets. So that's more of a top-
down uh job redesign approach. But that
still starts from the current set of
tasks. And I think the third level to
think about this is to drop the existing
process and the existing tasks that we
currently do to make the product or the
service that we're producing and just
rethink processes from the bottom up AI
first. uh and this is where uh smaller
startups could potentially have a
benefit over larger corporations of
course who have bigger budgets for
adopting AI but who also are stuck in
their current processes and their
current systems and their current
bureaucracy. AI first startups could
rethink uh from from scratch how are we
going to deliver this product or service
using AI and from that you you create
new tasks and you you assemble jobs and
you you create jobs for people. I I've
got one more question because I'm
fascinated. I think it must be different
for the type of task you're asking the
AI to do and whether you're being honest
with your bosses at work as to whether
you've used AI or not. I think if you're
looking at vast amounts of data and
trying to collect a different pattern uh
to give you a different result to then
prove another outcome, AI would probably
be a really good thing to say, I use
some AI for this because it's been
better. But but if if some bosses have
asked their workers, did you use AI for
this? Is there still quite a a number of
people that are reluctant to say yes
because then what they're doing is
proving that they don't need to be in
the process anymore and that they're not
necessarily that good at their job. Is
is that happening? There there seems to
be some sort of a taboo indeed on on
announcing that you've used AI for that.
I want to break this taboo because I use
it all the time for all of my job tasks.
But indeed, there's some worry among
workers that if their boss would find
out there, they have some productivity
increases or some speed increases that
their boss might think that they are
unnecessary anymore or that they would
shrink the team or that they would have
lower bargaining power in in in
bargaining for their wages. And I think
this is a real fear that we shouldn't
dismiss at all and we should recognize
and and I think what companies need to
do to get workers on board is to is to
show them that uh AI is accepted here
and in fact encouraged here and we're
not going to be laying off anyone. We're
going to be using the time that that
that uh that we make available through
the productivity increases to give back
to the workers either through maybe more
uh days off in the year or through
assigning new uh interesting tasks that
allow you to grow inside our
organization and maybe come up with new
ideas, new business uh ideas, new
products, new services or just improving
the way we work and just making the most
of the human talent that we have in our
organization and And also I suppose if
you're quicker to adapt and work
alongside AI and not become a lagard
then actually you're going to be better
equipped to evolve as the tech evolves
alongside people at work. I I do think I
do think so. I think uh I've seen some
research and but this is purely
correlational is that the the sectors
who are most exposed to AI in the sense
I just described they have tasks that
are suitable for AI meaning the ICT
sector the financial sector the
professional services sector are also
the sectors that that have high labor
productivity growth right yeah and the
third dimension is especially in the US
um these are actually the sectors in
which the US is running ahead ahead of
Europe and I think there's a potential
there for Europe if we want to catch up
on productivity growth. Uh these might
be the sectors we can look at to
implement AI to increase this labor
productivity growth. Well, it's a
fascinating space to be looking at and
uh it's only going to evolve so much
quicker and and be such an interesting
pace to look at. So I'm sure we're going
to speak about this in many more
occasions, but thank you for today Laura
for sitting with me and and telling the
world a little bit more about it. So
thank you.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
