[Music]
Thank you all for coming. Uh we are
dealing with a very complex
international
governance regulatory environment and
some of you or a lot of you work for
companies that are global in nature and
are really trying to figure out you know
where should we go how where should we
invest where should we sell etc. Well,
the good news for you is that we've got
a amazing panel who bring really many
different perspectives and we're going
to try to not just talk about this
topics but hopefully leave you with or
they they are going to leave you with
something that'll be constructive and
tangible that maybe you can take away
from there. And if they don't then
please grab them at the end of the panel
and make sure they do. But uh the way we
are going to do it is I'll ask uh each
of them to introduce themselves but also
answer one uh specific question is what
uh issue in governance keeps each of you
up at night.
So we'll start with you Ten.
>> Yes. Thank you very much. Uh it's my
third time here and uh it's always a
great energy and I'm looking forward to
go to this uh showroom and uh I'm from
Berlin, Europe and last year it was like
that uh when Europe was on holiday on
August which is usually the time here
was so much energy but January was a
wakeup moment in Europe and I think uh
there's hope. Um anyway uh what wakes me
up of course that's the the geopolitical
context. I'm very much uh working in
that context on uh governance issues,
digital sovereignty and uh
and um I think the the way to find an
access point of collaboration about
myself. Yeah. So I've been uh I have
been in this AI governance uh arena
since a while. In fact actually we had
uh that was in China. So I focus on
China and Europe a little bit on the
United States. uh we run the first uh AI
ethics workshops in 20189 where some
outside China thought well China is not
talking about AI ethics and so uh we had
a good time uh I'm uh try to publish so
I'm a researcher uh public policy
researcher but I'm also entrepreneur and
uh focus and uh I don't want to make my
advertisement for my session later I
look also into the issue of
consciousness AI and consciousness
Ryan,
>> thank you for noticing the cool hat.
>> Um, and uh I I'm a big fan of uh you
know, consciousness and AI, right? So,
we should have a small discussion after.
Um, so my name is Ryan Wong. I'm uh a VC
and PE investor. So, on the venture
capital side, I manage a uh a firm
called Outpost Capital where we do early
stage frontier technology investments,
right? So things like AI, robotics,
spatial computing, blockchain, those are
my sectors. And on the private equity
side, I manage a firm called uh Solaris
venture partners where we do growth
stage opportunities in uh data center,
digital infra and uh also AI robotics.
Actually, I have one of my colleague
from uh Solaris, David. He's sitting
right there. Um and um yeah you know uh
my uh before that I was investing bank
in New York City and then before that um
I was born raised in China right so
spent my childhood in China. So um my
perspective and I think you know when I
look into the uh uh the governance and
uh the regulation um ecosystem out there
what's keeping me at night I think it's
very similar to what uh Torson has just
mentioned I am so tired of this whole US
China competition right rivalry type of
narrative and I think uh you know I
would love to see more collaborations
happening and I think uh there are
clearly a lot of misunderstandings
things on both sides of the table and
the collaboration is definitely help
very something very very helpful for us
to accelerate into a better version of
the future. So that's uh that's my take
on it.
>> Tired of this US China stuff keeping you
up uh at night besides this whole US
China stuff. Something new.
>> Yes sir. Uh so I'm Justin Hendricks. I'm
the CEO and editor of Tech Policy Press.
Uh we are uh a website, a media
organization that focuses pretty much
what it says on the tin. We write about
tech policy matters uh both producing
our own in reporting and analysis but
also uh with expert contributors from
across the world. Um I started my career
at the economist. I was there for about
a dozen years. I ended up running a
emerging media technology lab out of NYU
for about a decade. I still teach at NYU
and at Cornell Tech. Um and in the
course of doing that I started teaching
around uh tech media democracy issues
and became you know uh very concerned
about the relationship between
technology uh and democracy uh in the
world. Democracy is a form of
governance. The thing that keeps me up
at night is the uh now multi-deadea
decade decline of democratic uh form of
governance in the world. Um and that
decline appears to be hastening
including here in the United States. Um
and so the question I sort of try to
answer on uh most days is um how are we
going to build a more just, equitable,
sustainable, democratic future? What
role does technology play in
potentially, you know, affording that
future and what role does it play in
potentially sabotaging that future? Um
so when I think about governance issues,
I'm looking at it through that frame.
I'm a NYU graduate by the way. So always
good to see alumni
>> bleed violet.
>> All right. So you've seen some different
perspectives and we'll try to kind of
dig into that. Ten you worked a lot in
the EU and the China space. So when you
compare those two from a you know look
at our audience if they've got companies
uh or they're looking at companies etc.
What are the few differences when you
look at the EU and the China regulatory
environment?
>> I we like to look at differences uh but
sometimes those differences are uh
politicize or narrative. So uh there's
one when we talk about AI governance is
the legal side. So there's this notion
of uh abiding to the rule of law and uh
for some some abide to that for some
others other countries where many other
countries or they don't do right but I
think it's uh maybe the wrong way to put
it uh I think there are differences but
uh to maybe depoliticize those
differences if you look at the legal
transitions in the United States Europe
and China you see uh the US has a common
law Europe has a civil law and uh and
China has a hybrid civil law and let's
say with state collectivist uh goals and
uh and they have all lawyers and they
have they practicing law uh but if you
look at those those cultural differences
then you will also understand why the
United States has not uh let's say NI
comprehensive AI law uh is not only that
you have a very competing parties here
two parties but also that this kind of
case-based law kind of prevents that in
a way, right? And then you have a a a
civil law, then everything is encoded in
the law and the judge has to interpret
the law and here is case by case. So new
legal changes happen by case. Um that's
one. So I think um um
so that's that's those differences and
what comes over it now is the push for
sovereignty. I think sovereignty is
needed to let's say rebuild the
democracy, rebuild the economy and and
we had decades where this sovereignty
was compromised and maybe for not all
the best ends. Uh the problem is with
this push for sovereignty, you uh you
you have the legitimate right to to
secure AI or secure technology uh to be
sovereign over your technology, but it
has pushed the boundaries uh between
security and protectionism and I think
that's a great a great issue we are
facing.
>> So Ryan um let's say we have some of our
folks in the audience who are trying to
build companies. when you look at the
investment you know as an investor which
environment regulatory environment is
from your standpoint the best
environment to invest in whether it's
Europe US or China
>> right I think this is a great question
right and um uh I have a limited
understanding about Europe so I'm going
to lean to you for those type of
expertise but uh between US and Asia
right and I think uh you China is a one
of the dominant falls in Asia but uh the
the other markets like um you know
Southeast Asia, Japan, Korea, Singapore
right those are also very very
interesting market as well and I think
um you know in general what's happened
from an investment perspective when we
look into the uh landscape uh US versus
Asia right so some of the primary
differences right one I think um um the
valuation of the US companies is in
generally much much higher than um than
Asia- based companies right so you know
most recent round of figure AI is valued
close to 40 billion right when the
company is still um still a pre-product
company right they haven't really
officially launched their product um so
things like this is unimaginable in AI
in in in Asia right and also at the same
time I think the the talent pool is also
quite different, right? So, a lot of
people earlier this year, right, in
January when DeepS first dropped the uh
the R3, right, a lot of people are uh
are surprised that oh, you know, why
this open-source AI model is coming out
of China and I think, you know, to me
it's not a surprise to me, right? Why?
Because in the open-source word
development space um mo most of the new
R&Ds in that space are driven by
researchers, PhDs are driven by the
academia right and uh most of the papers
are public right so these are not tra
secret or you know uh so anyone in the
world have access to all this
information and when we look into the
talent pool um North American US to be
specific
versus um versus uh Asia in particularly
China right we see we see how you know
how many new PhD graduates from China
every year and we can compare the
numbers right it's a huge huge gap right
and when you can you know think in this
kind of perspective naturally you can
understand oh you know why in in the
closed source world open AI is a leader
right you know they they are the they
are the state-of-the-art but why in the
open source board right why you know
deep sake um the chen by Alibaba
by Tencent right all these model are
performing so so well and how they can
you know use their you know advanced
research and uh like you know just army
of PhDs to um to optimize how the system
function to the extreme right so I think
you know there are opportunity all
across the board um more money for your
for your buck I think you know uh Asia
IA companies, Chinese companies are very
lower while US companies more expensive.
But in in term of exit strategies,
right? Like you know it's easier to
access um to exit as a US-based company,
right? Because you know you can uh US
stock market, US financial markets is
more mature. You have investors from all
over the world, right, for exit
opportunities. But in China the capital
situation uh a lot of USD fund has been
pulling away from China starting uh 3
four years ago right? So you know
international players are leaving this
playground and also you know for a lot
of um uh domestic investors is mostly
backed by certain level backed by the
Chinese government for the domestic
investors. So for exit opportunities not
so promising. So it's different and I
think opportunities and um and uh and
the struggles happening in everywhere um
when we compare these two markets.
>> But the bottom line is if these guys
want a higher valuation it's good old
USA. Um but just very briefly Ryan why
has China and this is just a question
maybe thirst too gone so big into
opensource is there a strategic reason
uh or is this a company uh reason
because when you look at deepseek you
look at Quen from Alibaba and there's
whole range of others we only talk about
them I mean here we have you know Llama
and there are several others in France
as Mistl but why has China gone so far
ahead strategically in open source
>> right I I think that's a really good
question and uh I don't have a very
confident answer on this one uh my
interpretation is that u you know China
a lot of um you know foundation model
companies in China right like moonshot
um like the one started by Kyu Lee right
the former uh CEO for Microsoft in China
as well um so they tried closed source
Okay. Um they've they try to make it
work but I think uh maybe because of the
the best researchers the top 000 p top
001%
um type of researchers and uh you know
developers they are still very much um
based in the US and in particular based
in Silicon Valley right that's why you
know in this open-source to closed
source competition the open source
happen to be the winner in China, right?
Versus, you know, um in the in the US
the playbook is different, right? Um
Meta just spent like, you know, hundreds
of million dollar per person to hire
their super intelligence team, right?
And in in this uh this kind of scenario
is unimaginable
for companies in China, right? So, if
you want to attract the top 00001%
uh expert, that's a cost. And uh in
China most of the companies can afford
this kind of a cost and uh I think
that's kind of like my superficial
assumption on what's happening.
>> Uh Justin is feeling a little lonely
here. I'm going to come to you Tristan.
Uh Justin you look at the US uh you know
regulatory environment governance uh
environment in the US now we have a
innovation first pro- innovation kind of
an environment but we have state level
kind of patches. How do you compare that
with a centralized regulatory system in
the EU and more so also in China?
>> Yeah, I think I'll come to the state,
but I also want to um just maybe comment
on the positionality of the US with
regard to Europe and China as well. Um
and you know, you said we have an
innovation first agenda. Uh but the
stated agenda of the president at the
moment is unquestioned and unchallenged
technological dominance. Um that is the
phrase right in the plan to win the AI
race.
>> Um so you know uh this question over
whether we should regard uh the the AI
race uh you know necessarily as as
simply a kind of binary competition uh
perhaps between the US and China. We
could have a whole other panel on that.
Um but if we just take that phrase
winning the AI race and we think about
um if we were to cast our minds forward
and in the eventuality that we would
look back and say we lost the United
States lost the AI race what would be
the reasons um I think we could probably
see the beginnings the germs of some of
those now you talk about digital
sovereignty and the push for digital
sovereignty that's not coming from
nowhere right um there's a real fear of
unquestioned ed and unchallenged
technological dominance and what that
might mean for the politics of other
countries. Uh there is you know a real
pull from China which is got this sort
of open approach and is talking in the
language of multilateralism and
international cooperation and trying to
make friends and allies uh etc. Um, and
then there's the extraordinary excess of
our market, right? It's great. There's a
lot of capital slloshing about, right?
But then you end up with these vapid
statements about super intelligence from
people like Mark Zuckerberg. Um, if if
you haven't read his most recent little
mini manifesto, I encourage you to do
it. It's appears he's entirely out of
ideas and all he has left is capital.
Uh, so, you know, I think there's a real
possibility we'll look back and say US,
yeah, it was it was a leader. uh and it
self-sabotaged. It shut down its
science,
right? Uh it it made extraordinary
mistakes in this heady moment uh where
it believed its its uh own Kool-Aid. It
drank its own Kool-Aid, right? Um so
there's an extraordinary advantage
potentially for China and its
positionality as a as a challenger. Uh I
don't endorse that will be a better
world necessarily. uh if in fact the US
quote unquote loses the AI race. Um
we'll see what happens in Europe.
There's a lot of public spending there
right now at the moment. A lot of
concern about sovereignty. Uh and I
think that we'll begin to see whether
the political forces in Europe uh that
want to in essentially cleave themselves
off from reliance on the United States
uh whether that eventually kind of
becomes you know the majority view. Um
but you can understand the motivation.
Here in the US we have very fractured
politics uh across the US states.
There's a a you know a clear split
between uh red and blue states ones that
want to concern themselves with some of
the kind of regulatory guard rails um
that many believe are necessary. Uh red
states which may align more perhaps with
the current federal government's uh uh
point of view. Um there is a push to
essentially uh sideline all state
regulation in the US. We saw that
recently with the federal moratorum uh
which was defeated in the Senate before
the big beautiful bill was passed on
July the 4th. Um but that idea is still
germinating and may yet come back. It
was included in the AI action plan uh a
kind of moratorium light. you know, this
idea that the federal government would
review uh the regulatory scenario in
every state before offering uh federal
funds or you know, federal support. Not
exactly clear what it means or if any of
that would be constitutional, but um you
know, it still remains to be seen how
things will play out at the state level.
I said a lot. I'll stop there.
So uh one of the you know obviously we
have you know entrepreneurs as well as
policy leaders and you can't pick up at
least anything in the tech world without
talking about our favorite subject AI
agents. So I want to kind of get some
perspective that do AI agents need some
kind of a different governance
framework? Uh I want to open it up from
all of you to really understand because
it is autonomous.
Um and how is is the EU or China or the
US thinking about it? Uh person from
your standpoint
>> um uh I think we always need to adjust
the governance uh because it's a
transitionary transformative
transformative uh uh technology. So you
cannot just say we don't we need it. So
we need always to adapt and uh the
agents uh just assuming that they that
they really will start collaborating
like on a mass level um basically it
repeats a current economic system and
then you have to make up your own mind
is that economic system is it producing
the benefits for society is it producing
uh a more just more equal not within the
country also across countries uh because
when we had this openness in the past it
also just worked because there was a
there was a structural hierarchy in the
world in the past century. Let's say
take telecommunication. Uh it was always
monopolized in the west and there was
just five countries uh who had the
monopuly. Uh and uh there was no there
was no almost no innovation going on.
There was no technology transfer. There
was not an interest even by the
international organization like the ITU,
the international communications union
etc. So once uh uh now we we go into the
sovereignty because now we become more
open equal right with China's rise but
also other countries rise this
multiparity etc suddenly this openness
doesn't work anymore. So what was um
what was a a a common strategy becomes
now only my strategy. So and the
technology just sits on top of it. It
transforms, it changes, it changes
hierarchies. Uh it also liberalizes,
right? Technology is a liberating force.
Um uh but it can also repeat something
which we don't want to repeat. So it's
not just about to regulate the
technology having a new governance
structure for for agents but to see how
would it repeat what we don't want to
have repeated. Right? That's my view.
>> Anybody else on AI agents?
>> Yeah. So I think you know one of the
thing about the AI agent is that
especially for um those type of agent
that involve chain of thoughts right
like you know products like manis right
it's a Chinese company building a uh
agent operator style type of um uh type
of agent based solution that can handle
a lot of tasks um right so for for agent
application to run well it require a lot
of um computation power especially the
uh what we call as a inference side of
the computation, right? And um uh with a
with a demand for the inference side of
computation rise up, there's a huge huge
demand for the infrastructure side,
right? We need to have enough um uh
infrastructure to cover the potential um
increase on the on on the demand from
the application layer. So I think you
know um when I look into what's
happening in US uh with what's happening
in in Asia in particular in China right
as Justin you mentioned the US uh uh
politic is very fragmented whereas in
China it's very centralized right I
think that create quite a difference on
the on the build out of the next
generation infrastructure as well right
whereas we see you know uh Stargate
amazing very ambitious plan Right. And
uh you know right now we are like more
than half a years since the announcement
and uh where are they? What's a what's a
progress look like? You know there are a
lot of challenges handling the
financing, handling the buildout and the
certain power dynamic between OpenAI
soft bank and Oracle right whereas you
know uh things are h things that happen
in China despite all the sanctions of
you know Nvidia chips exporting to China
and all that stuff a lot of new
infrastructure are being built in in
light speed right a lot of things are
done uh very fast very cheap and very
reliable right China is very famous for
it infrastructure building and I think
you know part of the reason is that it
has a centralized governing system and
everything is top down right there's
after the order is made there's no
debate and let's just heads down and get
things done right so that's kind of like
the China style in a nutshell so I think
um it's uh it it's it's tricky to see
how things will evolve from here but I
think you know both China and US had the
has certain level their leadership right
and I think uh you So uh uh at the end
of the day um there are pros and cons on
each of the structure and each of the um
uh each of the system right and I think
uh you know it's uh it's why I keep
saying that hey we should try to change
the narrative here right especially from
the US side I don't want all of us to
kind of when we think about China we
just point to China and say you guys are
the bad guy right I I want to change at
least that narrative to say hey you know
we are not enemies and uh is we might be
like opponents we might be you know
competitors but we are not true enemies
here right the true anime is a bigger
threat of the the AI right how AI could
be a bigger threat to humanity that's
that's where the big picture is can we
focus on that and try to collaborate try
to have some conversations open right so
I think um yeah you know that's uh I
think from agent It also involve like a
lot of things in that space as well.
>> Justin just Oh, sorry.
>> I was going to pick up on your AI agents
question if if you
>> No, it's actually, you know, some of our
uh folks who are working in the US,
there are some states who have come up
with uh AI legislation when you look at,
you know, Connecticut, Colorado
especially being high up there. How
should these folks be looking at these
kinds of different state regulations as
their their companies are working or
they're working as small entrepreneurs,
big entrepreneurs. What is your
perspective on that?
>> Uh well, I mean certainly um you know uh
states to watch include you know
Colorado which is now kind of I think
having a bit of a political waiver on uh
its first in the nation quote unquote
comprehensive AI bill. Um, but other
states, California, um, uh, as you
mentioned, Connecticut, uh, just talked
last week at the National Conference of
State Legislators, which I think I see
another face that was there in the room
at that event in Boston, um, with a
legislator who's, you know, working on
AI regulation there. There are things
happening in my home state of New York.
There are many others. Um, I'd also
point to Texas, uh, which just passed,
you know, what could be regarded, uh, as
a another model of of state AI
regulation. Um so there's a lot going on
there. I do think at the moment um you
know that it it's complicated. Uh I I
don't uh buy the argument that we are in
such a sort of profound uh confusing
patchwork that uh you know companies or
or entrepreneurs can't make sense of it.
Most of the things uh that are being
regulated um are are you know fairly
straightforward. We'll see what happens.
Um just to pick up really quick one
thing on the AI agents question. Um I I
think it's going to be really
interesting to see what happens in the
next couple of years as more and more
including the people in this room uh we
we daisy chain more AI systems together
and we know we set these agents out to
kind of negotiate in uh their legions
amongst one another and various forms of
commerce or or you know what other types
of interactions happen. Um, but you
know, if I released a chemical into the
world and it catalyzed with other
chemicals and created a bad output,
right, you'd want to hold me
responsible. Um, so I hope we don't go
too far in regarding agents as
autonomous uh somehow that the the the
the blame uh for releasing that
catalytic agent into the world uh
doesn't rest with the person who took
the decision to do so uh or the company
or the organization. So that's one thing
that I would I would say about that. Um
but I think this is one area where um we
talked a little last night if you don't
mind me saying about standards uh at the
at the event that we were at um
standards interoperability extraordinary
excruciating a subject for many you know
the detailoriented process someone was
talking about how standards take years
to accomplish in many cases that type of
work is crucial especially in a world of
AI agents especially if we're afraid
that we're going to send these uh you
know catalytic
semi-aututonomous entities out to
accomplish all manner of things. Um we
will we need to deeply think about those
things and invest in uh in standards and
interoperability uh types of concerns.
And so um I would look for uh
legislation from the states uh
eventually. I think that there will be a
wave next year probably we're beginning
to see the beginnings of it now a wave
of AI chatbot legislation in the cha in
the states in including some of it
focused on applications around mental
health or concerns about child safety.
Um but I think you'll then eventually
begin to see uh legislation that tries
to get at some of these questions of of
commerce and agents. You know, one of
the things that uh Justin you mentioned
is that you're worried a little bit that
AI is a little bit of a bubble so to
speak. Now, if let's say the bubble,
well, in this conference, we never
wanted to burst, but if that ever
happened, what would that mean for
regulations, governance, or
collaboration between countries?
So, this is a very good question and um
I'll leave it to smarter people to know
if uh it's a bubble, but right but was
it a $ 1.5 billion offer for some person
to join Meta uh some aqua hire type uh
thing we you mentioned in your
presentation the $250 million where they
signing bonuses or whatever. I mean,
okay.
>> I mean, they paid 14 billion for scale
for 49% of it. So,
>> hey, maybe it's not a bubble, right? Um,
this conference went from 2,000 to 9,000
attendees. Um, you know, there are
certain things that that look like this
and you can begin to ask yourself what's
going on here, right? Um, the amount of
capital deployed, the the amount of
enthusiasm. Um, we'll find out, you
know, eventually uh whether that bubble
bursts. Um, the question I think will be
when it bursts, what the policy makers
make of it. Um, some would argue that
the EU maybe uh got out a little bit
over its skis in terms of the uh AI act
partially in response to the degree of
enthusiasm um and the degree of concern
about artificial intelligence that maybe
some of the um breathless sweaty
meetings over AI governance and AI
safety over the last few years were
partly a result of uh a kind of response
to the the the bubble that has formed um
if it has formed. Um but on the other
hand, if it bursts, you know, will how
will policy makers react? Will they uh
you know, regard it as a moment to pull
back from concerns about AI governance?
Will that leave us in the lurch when
eventually uh the technology makes
another radical advance?
>> So Ten, you and Ryan have basically said
that we need to work closer. US and
China need to work closer. Um, I host a
podcast and I get a lot of members of
Congress and Senate that come in and
they basically consistently across the
board on bipartisan basis say the you
know the country that wins the AI race
is going to dominate whatever you want
to say it now and there is this whole
issue of sovereign AI. When we talk
about governance, we talk about
collaboration. How do you kind of uh
marry the two that whoever wins the AI
race is going to dominate or we need to
collaborate? I mean if you see most US
companies are kind of retreating they
pull all the research when you look at
even Microsoft and others everybody's
kind of pulled back from China in many
ways.
>> Yes. I mean if you look at uh it's quite
quite gloomy. Uh the question is what is
the race? What's the goal? uh and what
are you willing to compromise on you
know to reach that goal and is there an
end goal in the AI because we have this
notion of AGI or super intelligence is
that the end goal or is it then suddenly
we use it for good etc. So it's not
clear uh it's it's a narrative right so
and everyone buys into that and because
also the stakes are very high it's a lot
of investment I think it's a 10 to 100
times more uh compared when
telecommunication was uh put into place
where you had also massive state
intervention because no one can afford
it and now we have a big change that in
the past it was governments intervening
in the west and putting the money in now
it's basically the private sector in the
United States uh and China is China is
the only country where actually the
government has own AI capacity.
The US has no the US government has no
own AI capacity. It needs matter etc.
And in Europe I don't want to say has no
capacity at all but I think Europe's
strength here is vertically in the
industry. That might be the chance. So
on the collaborative side I would say uh
Jeffrey Hinton actually he visited China
just a few days ago right he went to the
the other conference and he said oh
there's kind AI there's smart AI and he
said we should collaborate on kindness
right and uh on the smart side I mean
that's a competition you don't want to
we don't want to I don't know whether
you can uh dissect a model in that way
but I I would make this analogy there
used to be the open skies treaty uh
which is is a defense treaty uh
unfortunately it doesn't exist anymore
for all the obvious reasons but it meant
basically when I you know when my
satellites cross your country or when I
do something I will inform you right so
what could happen is say if I develop um
you know this super duper model whatever
yeah uh uh I inform the other side we
have these great capacity capabilities
just be informed and don't freak out
when you see it so that's one way uh
Hinton is right that there's certain
issues uh like with some kind of
terrorism uh which is a common enemy but
I have to also say that the word
terrorism is also not so straightforward
these days uh but I think there are some
risks where there need to be
collaboration and I just realized that
even Eric Schmidt who is uh kind of
hawkish right towards China but even he
now is kind of uh more open and sees the
need to collaborate right and uh if AI
is something like energy it's almost a
public good. So, so you need to also
open up that comes maybe back on the
open source approach. But of course,
China uh if I can just make one comment
on that which is usually done that China
has no choice and also to open source it
uh to catch up right because you get
more users. Uh but this open source is
different than in the old days software
opening up software. So uh anyway so on
the collaborative side um um I think
it's really this kind of what I said
like an open skies approach uh and uh
never stop trying to have this dialogue
always even if you say we have these
differences identify the differences and
maybe have a mechanism to reduce this uh
over time
>> we basically talked about three basic
frameworks you know the US EU and China
there's rest of the world that kind of
exists out there you know they call it
the global south or whatever it is
countries like India Indonesia
Philippines and that whole region are
their governance structures going to get
subsumed either you join the US
framework or you join the China
framework or you join the EU what's
going to happen I mean that's a huge I
mean Africa
South America Latin America where do
these uh frameworks go
>> I
If I can just uh uh so I had the
opportunity also to join one of those uh
bricks events which happened in Brazil.
So I was in Sa Paulo uh in uh Rio and uh
and um there's already on multiple
fronts from technology from institutions
the approach to collaborate so I think
it will happen uh in that way that you
try to you know to interface with
certain governance approaches you will
see that happening uh but in order to
keep it open you need to have not just a
technology interoperability but also
governance interpretability I mean and
that's the thing is you know our our
mind our consciousness works based on
significance on the difference but I
think we have so many commonalities if
you look at how AI is regulated for
example uh you find so many
commonalities uh despite the differences
uh and I think we need to find these
commonalities and find those interfaces
uh but otherwise I think we will see
unfortunately what we saw last century
uh that we will see institutions ions
which just support like say a monopoly
approach or whatever. So you it cascades
down unfortunately and the one who leads
it has the power to define the
institutions etc. So uh so it it it
permits all aspects. Uh so we have to be
um uh concerned or looking at all these
aspects and not just let it go but
always try to reach out again and try to
have this conversation.
Brian, anything on that Justin in terms
of the what's happening around the other
frameworks?
>> Well, I'll say uh you know India is
about to host the next AI summit. Um and
we'll see you know what uh the agenda is
uh for that event. I think it's in
February uh coming up. Um that will
they're not calling them summits now are
they? They're opportunity sessions or
whatever. Um but the uh the next one uh
you know whether the Indian government's
priorities which we know include more of
a focus on equity uh more of a focus on
um you know uh how to uh diffuse
technology across the global majority.
Um those types of concerns should rise
to the four uh in the agenda there I
assume and so that will be interesting
to to see uh you know what type of
thought comes out of that. Um and you
know across the world whether it's in
Latin America or in Africa um you know
other governments other the African
Union they're making progress on
thinking about these questions. Um but
again it comes back to this you know
within this uh maybe two po polar domain
between China and the US. Um you know we
are asking uh c countries to sign on to
the US vision right um which is no
longer a stated vision of a more
democratic uh equitable and just
sustainable future uh but one simply of
unquestioned unchallenged American
dominance uh so you know come along with
us on that journey um where as opposed
to to China through bricks and through
the UN and through a various other uh
multilateral organizations is is uh
attempting to kind of sell a different
kind of idea, more maybe you'd argue
more transactional transactional idea.
Um but uh our allies, I suspect our our
allies are between a rock and a hard
place. Um so we'll see what happens over
the next few years uh and whether
countries outside of uh those those
regions that you you described um what
they what they choose to do. We getting
a little bit of a hook. Uh, but we do
want to open it up to some audience
questions. I've been bombarding you. I
have still a few ones left. But let's
see if we can have some
better questions than this guy's been
asking from the audience. And if they
don't, then I'll continue marching on
and we'll try to keep it short. Any
questions for them? But in the
meanwhile, I'll just Oh, please.
>> Sorry. My name is Ryan Gary. I'm the CTO
of Save the Children. I'm also a USC
doctorate candidate on governance and
AI. And I recently made a trip to
Shanghai Shanghai and Chanqing a month
ago. Um met some friends a strip ever.
Um but my point though here is I'm
working on the hypocratic oath between
EI like how can we do it for good? And I
guess my question to all of you and I'm
going to send a LinkedIn to all of you
for a variety of research reasons. like
what do you think is the one thing
that's holding people back from really
seeing AI as this opportunity to kind of
come together with China solve cancer
find commonalities as opposed to the
differences and reason I asked this
question is I don't want to do another
paper on the digital divide we heard
this a million times I want to find
practices that work so we could
replicate those and show that we can do
this right so I just want to get opinion
of anyone on the how can we get everyone
to find those commonalities so we can
actually move to a better place and I
say this as someone who was born in
Haiti, live in Chicago. I know there's
opportunity around and we could do this.
I just want to get your perspective. Um
and I love what um Mr. Hinton said,
Professor Hinton about you know the
mother AI I think is something that's
very important and your thoughts on
that. So I asked a lot of questions
there but how do we get this right in
your opinion? One quick answer because
running
>> quick answer I think is AI for good
right like you said we are driven by our
consciousness and our consciousness are
driven by stories right and then
different people different culture
different value system had different
definition on what is good but I think
the most fundamental unity of different
perspective is human nature right is
humanity right so we know that there are
still people living in hunger living in
poverty right if we can use AI to solve
those kind of problem is definitely for
good right and also you know um in the
open source world right you can open
weights you can open source code you can
open data right like different level on
how you can open different stuff and I
think you know from a research
perspective on further you can drive the
development and the advancement ment of
the AI sector. I think that's something
good for the for the humanity and for
the global economy as well. And um you
know a lot of real world problems will
be solved when the economy is getting to
the next stage. And uh you just talk
about whether we are in a bubble or not.
If the bubble burst what's going to
happen but I think you know if the AI
bubble burst I don't know what's the
next driver for the economy. So I
hopefully it's not bursting soon. U I'm
going to try to put them on the spot a
little bit before we end because that's
my job. So even though I think I'm way
way past uh final question to you
Tristan and Justin and Ryan in in the
end which governance framework is going
to win out of the EU, China, US
>> the one where
>> you're being recorded here remember
that. I repeat your question. Which
government's governance model will win?
And it's very easy. The one who has
motherly AI or is a moral partner?
>> You got to be in politics. Ryan, let's
see if you can hear it, man.
>> Humanity wins.
>> We are not priming for the Oscars here,
man. Just
>> I think the governance model will win.
um that has uh demonstrated
uh to more of the world um that it can
satisfy the interests of humanity.
>> Um and that will be uh something that
will take a long time to determine and I
think that unfortunately uh the answer
is not clear. Um
>> I think you guys have been watching Miss
Universe for a little while, too long,
but that's a whole different story. I
think I'm getting the hook. But uh thank
you guys for a fantastic panel. Really
really appreciate it. Great panel. Thank
you all.
[Music]
