Hi everyone. Welcome back to the AI
Policy Podcast. Uh it's great to be back
with Greg. It's been a while since we've
done one of these together. Um but today
we're going to start by discussing
Trump's recent executive order that
targets state AI laws and then later
we're going to break down the recent
headlines about Meta's fraud revenues.
So I'm Satie McCullen. joined by Greg as
always. So, welcome back.
>> Great to be speaking with you, Satie.
And let me just say to our listeners,
um, if you have not been reading the
reporting coming out of Reuters about
Meta and fraud, boy oh boy, should you
stick around. Uh, because it I can't
believe I'm saying this, but I it is
such bombshell reporting. It's one of
those things where like how can you
claim to have a credible opinion about
AI regulation unless you know about what
Reuters has found reviewing internal
documents at Meta. Um it's it's that
much of a a bombshell kind of reporting
and there's a lot of them and they're
still coming out. So we're going to uh
dive through a lot of that material as
well as the uh congressional request for
an inquiry around that and how it does
and does not tie to debates on AI
regulation.
>> All right. Well, I have a lot of
questions for you, so let's not waste
any time and jump right in on um the
executive order. So, on December 11th,
President Trump signed an executive
order targeting state AI laws. Um we've
done sections on this EO in past
episodes. First on the leaked draft and
then after Trump officially announced
that he'd be signing it. So, now that we
have the final text, I think it's
definitely worth unpacking what's
changed from the first draft and what
actions we can expect for the
administration going forward. So, Greg,
let's start with the former. How does
this final version compare to the
initial draft?
>> Yeah, so I think in in broad strokes the
leaked draft was accurate. Um there were
changes between the earlier leaked draft
and this final one, but the basic
mechanisms of the executive order are
retained. So let's talk about that. I
mean, the goal here is to fight state AI
regulatory laws to make them less
burdensome, to me make them less likely,
and of course to move the AI regulatory
debate to a federal standard on the
grounds that interstate commerce is at
risk when you're talking about AI and so
therefore it should be a federal
prerogative. So what are the mechanisms
that this uh EO creates for fighting
state AI regulations? Well, the first is
it directs the Department of Commerce to
review existing laws that it identifies
as overly burdensome regulation. And it
also says that the AISAR in the White
House, David Saxs, and the director of
White House OSTP, Michael Katzios, can
specifically suggest uh laws that are
worthy of investigation here. Note that
that is laws that have passed, not laws
that are, you know, being actively
debated in state legislatores. The
second thing is this Department of
Justice task force. So it's being called
the AI litigation task force whose sole
responsibility shall be to challenge
state AI laws that are considered overly
burdensome. So they're going to file
lawsuits uh and basically say you know
you can't do that. Then there are some
additional hooks like withholding
federal funds. So restrictions include
withholding state funding on broadband
equity access and deployment funds uh
and perhaps federal research type funds.
And that is similar to what you've seen
in the past. There have been times when
Congress would sort of say you cannot
get access to for example state highway
repair funding unless you adopt our
position on this other issue. And it's a
way that the federal government has in
the past tried to federalize certain
types of legal regimes uh when states
are not going the way it wants. Those
have not always been found to be
constitutional by the courts. Um but
these ones they're saying are sort of
tied to AI which I think is meant to to
make it more likely to survive court
review. Then there is Federal Trade
Commission preeemption. And uh here I'll
quote from uh the actual executive order
itself which is an explanation of quote
the circumstances under which state laws
that require alterations to the truthful
outputs of AI models are preempted by
the Federal Trade Commission Act. So
this is something where they're really
focused on the truthful outputs and in
the mind of the administration AI
systems have been forced to generate
false outputs often for woke ideology
reasons or DEI things. I think the
example of the launch of Gemini where it
depicted, you know, historical figures
from historical contexts such as like
African-American Nazis, you know, when
asked to generate a picture of a soldier
in Germany in 1940.
And that's just because they had certain
safeguards that were designed to show
proportionate representation of
different ethnicities. And the way that
interacted with requests for content uh
really did not rub Republicans the right
way. So that example looms large and
just anything that is coming to
ideologically motivated outputs um
they're interested in going after that
and the Federal Trade Commission act
gives them sort of an interesting legal
hook for going after that. So that's the
mechanisms for fighting state laws. Then
there is also mechanisms for introducing
federal standards and legislation which
is to say you know something is going to
happen at the federal level. It's not as
though nothing is going to be done. So
within 90 days, quote, the chairman of
the Federal Communications Commission
shall, in consultation with the special
adviser for AI and crypto, initiate a
proceeding to determine whether to adopt
federal reporting and disclosure
standard for AI models that preempts
state laws. So we're talking about a
federal reporting and disclosure
standard. And keep in mind, right, there
are disclosure and reporting standards
that apply in some of these state laws.
So it is it is trying at least in this
instance to replace something with
something to replace something at the
state level with something at the
federal level. Okay. And then David Sax
and Michaelios are also directed to
jointly prepare a legislative
recommendation establishing a uniform
federal policy framework for AI that
preempts state laws. So they've got this
FCC hook that they can do within
existing legislative authority and then
they're also asking these two White
House officials to engage and prepare
legislative recommendations that the
White House can take to Congress and
say, "Please pass this. This is what
should be the federal standard."
>> Sure. So we're seeing like a two-pronged
approach here.
>> Exactly. And there's a lot of that in
here. So that's that's sort of what is
um maintained that sort of overarching
architecture broadly the same. They
added in a few things that I think
reflect the debate as it's been
happening in Congress and in the media
about this executive order. So for
example in the purpose section they
added a line that says a federal
framework quote should also ensure that
children are protected, censorship is
prevented, copyrights are respected and
communities are safeguarded. So
essentially, they're pointing directly
at many of the harms that are talked
about in the AI regulatory debate and
saying whatever our federal legislative
proposal is going to be, it needs
something to say on these key issues in
the AI regulatory debate. And then they
also added a section in the legislation
section. Uh this is part B. quote, "The
legislative recommendation called for in
subsection A of this section shall not
propose preempt preempting otherwise
lawful state AI laws relating to one
child safety protections." So, that's
really interesting. That's a that's a
noteworthy concession. I think they're
recognizing that with the reporting
about AI leading to increases in select
cases of teen suicide or depression or
exposures to sexual content. There's a
lot of very politically hot button
issues where they're saying states, if
you're going after this stuff, we're not
going to try and stop you. And I think
that's a that's a reflection of the fact
that, you know, protect our children is
such a salient political message. It's
such an important topic um that they
don't want to say that that's part of
this executive order is is reducing uh
the protections that are going to exist
at the state level for for that.
>> That's a great breakdown. And what what
can you tell us about the people who are
supporting this executive order? Who are
they and what are they saying?
>> Yeah. Well, standing behind President
Trump when he signed this executive
order. Among that group was David Saxs,
the AISR Shriram Krishnan who is sort of
David Sax's number two and Senator Ted
Cruz who had been very prominent in the
debate on the uh the legislative side of
the federal moratorium on AI regulation.
So, uh, Sax has said on X, quote, "This
is not AI amnesty or AI moratorium. It
is an attempt to settle a question of
jurisdiction." So, this this gets back
to that argument about the interstate
commerce clause and how this is an
appropriate federal matter. And then,
Senator Cruz wrote on X, quote,
"President Trump took an important step
today to promote American leadership in
AI. We don't want China's values of
surveillance and communist control
governing AI. We want American values of
free speech, individual liberty, and
respect for the individual. So, I think
that's uh noteworthy. Um, keep in mind
here, right, he's saying we're we're
doing this because we're competing
against China in AI. And I have to
mention right that in the context of the
decision to sell H200 chips to China and
strengthen their AI ecosystem, you know,
these kind of arguments uh just land a
little bit differently than they might
have 6 months ago uh in this
administration. Um and then finally I
want to uh bring up a quote from Dean
Ball who previously served in the White
House Office of Science Technology
Policy and is now um at a think tank.
And he said, quote on X, "I am happy to
see the administration pushing forward
on a national AI law which America needs
to maintain the dynamism of its AI
industry and to prevent overregulation
by the EU and state governments. Nearly
all major technologies are governed by a
combination of federal and state laws."
However, he provides this caveat. quote,
"On its own, the EO cannot create a
nationwide preemptive framework. For
that, we will need a new law passed by
Congress." And so, I think that sort of
highlights the the strategy of the White
House here. They're trying to take
immediate steps by threatening court
action, uh, by setting up this
Department of Justice task force, by,
you know, in involving the FCC and the
FTC to just try and slow states down to
complicate states efforts to regulate
AI. But ultimately, it comes back to
what we've been saying on this podcast
for years now. Something has to be done
by Congress. Something has to be done at
the federal level. Executive action
alone is not enough. And it's so weird
that almost all sides agree that that is
true. And yet so little progress in that
direction has been made.
>> Absolutely. And such different
approaches um to getting there. Um,
that being said, who who's in opposition
of this now? Let's switch gears here.
And what are they talking about?
>> Well, I think it's really interesting
that there is pretty broad bipartisan
opposition to this move. It's one of
those areas in which while there are
Republican supporters, of course,
Senator Ted Cruz, for example, there's
also quite prominent Republican
opponents and some of them are attacking
it on a states rights kind of argument
that really the federal government needs
to know its place um under article 10 of
the constitution. And other kinds of
opposition is focusing on the fact of
the AI harms and the need to prevent
them and the fact that this is a selling
out to big tech companies. So, let's
just think about, you know, who's out
there publicly opposing it. Governor
Gavin Nuome of California, a very
prominent Democrat that just passed an
AI safety law that he signed. Um,
unsurprising, right, that he would be in
opposition. But Ron Dantis, uh, the
governor of Florida, has also come out
and as a prominent Republican said on X,
quote, "An executive order doesn't can't
preempt state legislative action.
Congress could theoretically preempt
states through legislation. The problem
is that Congress hasn't proposed any
coherent regulatory scheme, but instead
just wanted to block states from doing
anything for 10 years, which would be an
AI amnesty. And this AI amnesty phrase
is showing up repeatedly in criticisms
of this executive order as sort of a
letting the tech companies off easy
while there are these harms coming in.
So, uh, Republican lawmakers in Congress
similarly, uh, promoting and opposing
this. So, Utah Representative Doug, and
I I might say his name wrong here, but
FIFA, Fi E FIA, uh, FIFA maybe, uh,
Trump's new order, quote, is an
overreaching act that fundamentally
disregards the 10th Amendment and the
necessary roles of the states in
technology governance. While I support a
singular national framework, it must be
developed through the proper legislative
process in Congress to ensure full
debate and transparency, not through
unilateral action that threatens state
funding with no federal standard to
replace it with. So, I think what you're
seeing here, and by the way, plenty of
Democratic lawmakers have come off uh in
opposition to this, not just state ones,
like for example, California State
Senator Scott Weiner, who was heavily
involved in drafting SB53,
um but also those in in Congress. So,
you really are seeing pretty broad
opposition to this. But if you look at
the specific arguments that different
constituencies are making, many of them
are not necessarily opposing federal
action over state action. They're
supporting congressional action over
executive action. And that I think is
really kind of where we are in this sort
of muddled debate where different people
disagree for different reasons and it's
very hard to to reach consensus on
anything even though there are many
people who agree with parts of each
other's arguments. And so into that
muddled debate, uh the White House has
taken this pretty decisive action. But
given, you know, that we we have seen uh
folks already threatening lawsuits, I
expect this will head to the courts in
not too long.
>> Sure. So, forgive me if I'm jumping the
gun to a question I wanted to ask you in
a second, but you sparked my interest
when you started talking about Gavin
Newsome um and his recently signed bill.
So, what can you tell me about what
happens now to that bill in particular,
other bills like it that have already
been passed now that this executive
order um has also been signed?
>> Sure. Well, uh Gavin Newsome in
California, as is state senator Scott
Weiner, as is SB53. And so, I think
Scott Weiner actually said it best in
terms of what is the future of SB53. He
told the New York Post, quote, "If the
Trump administration tries to enforce
this ridiculous order, we will see them
in court." End quote. And I think that's
exactly where this is headed. Um, an
earlier version of the executive order,
the leaked version of the executive
order very clearly targeted California's
SB53. That that explicit reference was
removed from this updated version, the
final version of the executive order.
But it's crystal clear that the White
House does not like SB53. and views a
key role of this Department of Justice
task force uh squashing it. So, it's
very difficult for me to see how this
does not head to court in the not too
distant future. I think it's very clear
that they're on the they're on the
talking list. And then what's
interesting is not everybody who is
affiliated with the Trump administration
or previously affiliated with the Trump
administration expects the Trump
administration to win in court. uh Dean
Ball who who we talked about a moment
ago, he told Reuters, quote, I think the
administration has a 30 to 35% chance of
this working legally, which I think is
is so interesting. And now keep in mind
when you say of this working legally,
you're talking about, you know, one is
right legally, but you're also talking
about what courts are going to decide
legally. And that depends on, you know,
which court, which judge. There's a lot
of uncertainty. Even folks who think the
law is on their side are not always sure
that they're going to win in court. And
so here I think you have Dean Ball who
in general is sympathetic to the idea of
federal preeemption and he's not so sure
that that this is going to turn out in
the administration's favor in court. But
as I've said on this podcast before, the
Trump administration can get some of
what they want just by raising the
spectre of court. just by raising the
spectre of losing federal funding for AI
or for other things because that can,
you know, be in the background of state
legislatores minds as they're debating.
Well, is this really something that we
want to go go to the mattresses over? I
think some people will be delighted at
the opportunity to fight with Trump. Uh
Senator Scott Weiner is probably going
to raise his national profile, right, if
there's a big lawsuit about his bill and
the Trump administration. Uh but other
folks who are just trying to get some
stuff done um perhaps they will view the
calculus differently and will change
their behavior will change the the
wording of their laws
for that.
>> Exactly.
>> Um so on that note like what has the
Trump administration done to mitigate
concerns of their Republican allies?
>> Yeah. And I think I think the way you
phrase the question is right. I I I
haven't seen a lot of evidence that
they've done things to mitigate concerns
from Democrats, but given uh that you
know, Senator Blackburn uh a Republican
of Tennessee, had been staunchly in
opposition to the earlier legislative
attempt at an AI regulatory moratorum.
Um folks uh in the White House, notably
uh Sax and Krishnan have been going, you
know, to Congress trying to meet with
leaders, talking to them, their staffs
on, you know, this is not an assault on
states rights. This is something um that
we can we can be comfortable with. Now,
I think one thing uh that's noteworthy
is according to reporting by uh the
Washington Post, Trump actually called
Senator Marsha Blackburn uh because her
pulling her support for the effort to
include the legislative moratorum was so
influential. And I think here I'm I'm
sympathetic to the Trump administration
because some of the criticisms that
Senator Blackburn articulated on that
legislative proposal actually probably
would have been allowed uh uh under uh
the legislative proposal because it
didn't ban all types of AI regulation.
It was as I said before um focused on
those sort of preemptary requirements uh
before a product reaches the market not
regulating the harms uh that AI uh
causes. So, you know, that type of
clarification what they're trying to
achieve under what circumstances uh
regulation would be perhaps even
supported by this administration and
that call out that whatever this federal
framework is going to be is going to
target those specific harms. Those are a
lot of harms that Senator Blackburn had
talked about when she was opposing the
the federal one. So, I think we're
coming back to um the where does
Congress go next? What does this
legislative proposal look like? And as
our as our colleague Matt Mand pointed
out, um there's no deadline for when the
legislative proposal for this is going
to go into effect. So the fight in the
courts could start almost immediately.
How long it's going to take the White
House to to come up with a appropriate
legislative proposal and to much less
get it passed into law, uh who knows?
And so that's kind of where we are right
now.
>> Yeah. And to go off of that, you already
started touching on this, but what
impact can we expect this executive
order to have on state and federal
legislation moving forward?
>> Yeah. Well, we already talked about, you
know, uh that how this is going to end
up in the courts, but there's um
Shaquille Hashim, who's the editor of
the AI newsletter Transformer. He wrote
something that I thought was actually
kind of insightful here. um quote, "It's
legally messy, possibly
unconstitutional, and will probably just
be ignored by blue states like
California and New York while court
battles rage on. That will have the
effect of creating less regulatory
certainty rather than more." And it's
that final part of uh what he wrote that
I thought was so interesting. You know,
part of the argument for why this is a
pro- innovation, pro-economic growth
move is about regulatory certainty. And
the reality here is all this is headed
to the courts. That's a long period of
time to to not have certainty. And so
really the part where we could drive
towards certainty is getting something
passed through Congress, which is not
easy in the year 2025. Um, but I think
it's pretty clear that that is what it
would take.
>> Great. So, what I'm hearing you say
overall and to summarize is that this
executive order is going to end up in a
lot of court cases and it's having a lot
of opposition and support um opposition
from a bipartisan group. Um, but we'll
have to see what kind of legislation can
potentially come through and end up in a
uncertain uncertain regulatory
landscape. Yeah. And when has the Trump
administration ever shied away from a
fight in court?
>> Exactly. So, uh, as always, we'll be
tracking this. Um, our program director,
Olmet Meta, published a commentary on
this last Friday, which you can find,
uh, on our website at csis.org.
Greg, let's move on to the second topic,
which is meta. So, the administration is
betting that fewer rules at the state
level will lead to better outcomes. But
before we accept that bet, it's worth
looking at how these firms behave when
regulation is already very light. Which
brings us to Meta. Um, in the weeks
before Trump signed this executive
order, there were a slew of headlines
about Meta's questionable internal
decisions. So, I know you've been
reading a lot about this. Can you unpack
some of what has been reported on
recently?
>> Yeah. So, first let me just give a shout
out to Reuters, which has clearly gotten
access to a remarkable trove of internal
documents from Meta uh that Meta
spokespeople have said are genuine
documents that were leaked to Reuters
and they're quoting from these documents
and the claims in these documents are
just
astonishing.
Um uh one of one of my colleagues
basically said, "Okay, this is tobacco
companies saying cigarettes cure cancer
bad, right?" I mean, like it is a
remarkable string of pretty bad stuff.
And again, it's coming from Meta's
internal documents, their own
assessments of themselves and their
behavior. Um, so it's there's not a lot
of reason uh to doubt uh what's being
said here. That said, uh Meta did push
back on uh some of these claims. Um so I
I'll just say, you know, what I'm saying
based on this podcast is assuming the
Reuters reporting is true. Um Senators
Blumenthal and Holly are calling for
investigations by the Federal Trade
Commission and the Securities and
Exchange Commission. that sort of going
into the nitty-gritty detail will
presumably, you know, bring out the
truth in its its full light. Um, but
given that we're talking about a lot of
internal documents, uh, I I think we
just have to to to go forward and and
talk about these because the claims are
so explosive. Now, why do I want to talk
about these? You know, these are these
are primarily talking about Meta's
social media stuff. Well, it's for the
reason you said, Sadi, which is, you
know, these Meta is a extremely powerful
social media company. They are an
extremely powerful AI company and social
media is often in Washington DC
explicitly talked about as the failure
to regulate as in we should have done
something and we did not. That was
actually the frame that multiple
senators from both parties used when
OpenAI CEO Sam Alman testified before
Congress in I want to say the summer of
2023. They literally said, "Let's not
repeat the mistake of failing to
regulate social media." So, uh, Meta is
not an especially heavily regulated uh,
company. Uh, there is not a lot of
mandatory reporting and disclosures uh,
from Meta to the government about what
goes on in their platforms. And now
looking at some of these documents, we
have learned what's going on in their
platforms and what Meta is doing about
it. and it's just very very very
bad. Okay, so uh let's let's just talk
about some of what's on here. Number
one,
according to internal documents from
Meta as as captured by Reuters,
quote, Meta internally projected late
last year that it would earn about 10%
of its overall annual revenue or $16
billion from run from running
advertising for scams and banned goods,
internal company documents show. So, one
out of every
>> one out of every $10 that the company
earns from advertising is coming from
scams and banned goods. And and when we
talk about banned goods, I think it's
it's worth just pointing out like um
some of the banned goods are also
probably scams. So for example um
advertisements for pornography or
prostitution services happen on Meta and
then when you click on those ads you
don't get pornography or prostitution
services what you get is a financial
scam right so
>> and when you say on their platforms are
you just talking Facebook and Instagram
or
>> Facebook Instagram and WhatsApp and and
just so just so folks know you know the
way that WhatsApp is commonly used in
the United States is as a messaging
service really like a a replacement for
text messaging but in foreign countries
um WhatsApp groups can reach hundreds I
I'm not sure if it's still true but at
one point it was likely thousands of
people um and so the WhatsApp experience
in foreign countries looks a lot closer
to the way social media works sometimes
um the way Instagram and Facebook work
uh here in the United States so it's
certainly relevant there um Okay, let's
just let's just go down the the list of
bad things. Actually, I have I have a
different idea. So, on this podcast,
I've already read a lot of quotes, and
maybe some listeners out there love it,
maybe some listeners out there hate it,
but I'm going to read the longest quote
ever. And
>> this is definitely going to be the top
of the tally for our team. It's the
letter. It's the letter that Senators
Blumenthal and Holly sent to the
chairman of the Federal Trade Commission
and the chairman of the Security and
Exchange Commissions. And for those of
you who are watching on YouTube, I I'm
holding up the letter here and I I
highlighted everything that I thought
was important in the letter. And as you
can see, I basically highlighted every
word. And that's why I feel it's so
important uh to to read this thing out
loud. This letter is a banger and it
goes through everything in the the
Reuters reporting. So, this was
>> I'm on the edge of my seat, Greg.
>> You got to you got to listen to this,
folks. Um, so this was this was sent uh
on November 22nd, 2025. Dear Chairman
Ferguson and Chairman Atkins, we write
to urge the Federal Trade Commission and
Securities and Exchange Commission to
investigate and if appropriate, bring
enforcement actions against Meta for its
facilitation of and profiting from
criminal investment scams, fake
government benefit schemes, deep fake
pornography, and other fraudulent
activities. According to recent
reporting from Reuters, internal
documents show that Meta has earned
billions of dollars from fraudulent and
scam advertising while internally
stifling measures to prevent fraud. By
its own assessment, 10% of Meta's annual
revenue for last year was generated from
scam advertisements. A windfall of $16
billion in one year alone. Meta's
central facilitating role in scams
against consumers is unprecedented. By
its own employees assessment, Meta was
involved in onethird of all successful
scams in the United States and was
unmatched by other big tech platforms.
Using the Federal Trade Commission
estimate of 153 billion dollar in
overall fraud per year, this would
suggest that Meta was responsible for
more than $50 billion
in consumer loss last year. This
internal finding supports a December
2024 report by a UK financial regulator
that found Meta's platforms, Facebook,
Instagram, and WhatsApp were linked to
54% of payment scams and a JP Morgan
Chase investigation that found that Meta
accounted for nearly half of all
reported scams on zel, such as romance
scams that feain a love interest to
deceive a victim and fake investment
schemes. Meta's ill-gotten gains appear
to be no accident. It has made conscious
choices based on business considerations
that turned a blind eye and enabled it
to profit from illicit advertisements.
According to Reuters, Meta had specific
revenue guard rails that blocked its
anti-fraud team from taking action that
would cost Meta more than even a
mere.15%
of the company's total revenue. In line
with that approach, Meta only bans
advertisers if its automated systems
predict the marketers are all but
certain to be committing fraud. And by
its own estimates, it has ignored or
incorrectly rejected 96%
of user reports of fraud. Moreover,
perversely, Meta reportedly charges
higher rates for ads that it suspects
might be fraudulent. in effect imposing
a scam tax that provides an additional
lucrative revenue stream that it knows
is tied to fraud.
>> So they're enabling [snorts]
>> further because ME's advertising
algorithm targets individuals based on
their past clicks and interests. A
person that falls for a scam is more
likely to be targeted by even more scams
or fraudulent advertising, making
Facebook and Instagram a fraud tap that
can repeatedly exploit vulnerable
individuals. Meanwhile, these scams have
been allowed to take over Facebook and
Instagram as Meta has drastically cut
its safety staff, including for Federal
Trade Commission mandated reviews, even
as it dumps unimaginable sums into its
generative AI projects. As it does every
time its abuses and failures are
discovered, Meta has repeatedly claimed
it is cleaning up its act. But there is
overwhelming evidence that it continues
to knowingly profit from fraud. Even a
short review of Meta's ad library at the
time of this letter shows clearly
identifiable advertisements for illicit
gambling, payment scams, crypto scams,
AI deep fake sex services, and fake
offers of federal benefits,
advertisements that often fi falsely
appear to link to legitimate sites.
Further, despite the company's rules
against nudity, advertisements for
pornographic and sexually explicit
material and which often lead to malware
are widespread on Meta's products. While
Meta has been warned about advertisement
deep fakes impersonating politicians, it
still continues to run fraudulent clips,
including President Trump claiming to
offer a quote $1,000 SNAP replacement
program, praying on the most vulnerable
in America. The beneficiaries of these
scams are often cyber crime groups based
in China, Sri Lanka, Vietnam, and the
Philippines. The reporting makes clear
that Meta will not act on this rampant
fraud and criminality unless the FTC and
SEC put an end to it. According to
Reuters, Meta executives actually
limited their anti-fraud enforcement
efforts to focus only on quote countries
where it feared near-term regulatory
action. end quote. In line with these
efforts, in anticipation of enforcement,
Meta had budgeted for penalties of up to
$1 billion, which were a mere fraction
of the $7 billion in annual revenue from
high-risk advertisement alone. The FTC
and SEC should immediately open
investigations and if the reporting is
accurate, pursue vigorous enforcement
action where appropriate to force Meta
is fully to fully discourage all profits
from fraudulent advertisements, impose
steep civil penalties, hold individual
executives personally accountable, and
seek binding terms to end this scourge
on consumers, our economy, and our
national security. Thank you for your
attention to this matter. Sincerely,
Richard Blumenthal, United States
Senator. Josh Holly, United States
Senator.
>> Wow, that makes me want to delete my
Instagram.
>> Well, it might help your bank account.
Uh because who knows when you're going
to be targeted for one of these scams. I
mean, I I I read the whole letter
because I think the letter is explosive.
The reporting is also explosive. So
everything that Reuters has been putting
out for the past several months on Meta,
if you don't have a Reuters
subscription, get a Reuters
subscription. Like this is the most
important body of evidence that we have
right now in the regulating technology
debate. It is evidence of extraordinary
bad behavior by Meta. And what's it
what's even just more appalling is the
degree to which they know that this is
going on. They have means of going after
it and they disabled those means anytime
they appear to be effective. Right? So
if if 10% of the revenue is coming from
scam, fraud, sales of illegal goods, uh
etc. and you only give a budget to your
fraud prevention team of affecting 0.15%
of revenue. You're saying, "Okay, 10% of
our revenue comes from bad stuff, and we
want you to get rid of that." And when
we say get rid of that, you're not
allowed to affect more than 0.15% of
revenue. So, they're explicitly telling
these people, "Do not succeed in getting
rid of these scams because we want them
to continue." And
gosh, uh, here's the other thing. You
know, when when you think about tech
regulation, the social media
regulations, the internet regulations, a
lot of the mental model for this stuff
goes back to the phones, the phone
regulations, right? So, think think
about like regulating telephones in the
1930s in the United States. Well, you
know, if you're AT&T and you're selling
phone service, you're not wiretapping
every conversation. So, yes, the mafia
is probably facilitating crimes on your
phone network. But should we hold AT&T,
you know, to be punished for what the
mafia does using their phone lines? No,
obviously not. Right? But here's how
it's different in the case of Meta. They
are wiretapping every single
conversation that's going on. They know
what all of these ads look like. They
know the user reports. Um, and that's
some of the most incredible stuff. So,
this is from the November 6th Reuters
article. Meta was also ignoring the vast
majority of user reports of scams. A
document from 2023 indicates by that
year, safety staffers estimated that
Facebook and Instagram users each week
were filing about a 100,000 valid
reports of fraudsters messaging them,
the document says. But Meta ignored or
incorrectly rejected 96%
of them. Okay.
>> Wow.
>> You think that's bad? Guess what? Gets
worse.
>> Does it get worse?
>> Okay. Here's here's uh another quote.
quote, "But despite the surge in online
fraud, another 2022 document notes the
company's quote lack of investment end
quote in automated scam detection back
then. Meta classified scam ads as a
quote low severity problem end quote
viewing them as bad quote user
experience end quote." The document says
internal documents show that
metadirected staffers then to focus
mainly on fraudsters masquerading as
celebrities and usurping major brands.
Such impersonation scams risked
upsetting advertisers and public
figures, one 2022 document notes, and
thus threatened to reduce user
engagement and revenue. But ongoing
layoffs at Meta were hindering
enforcement. A planning document for the
first half of 2023 notes that everyone
who worked on the team handling
advertiser concerns about brand rights
issues had been laid off. The company
was also devoting resources so heavily
to virtual reality and AI that safety
staffers were ordered to restrict their
use of Meta's computing resources. They
were instructed to quote me sorry they
were instructed merely to quote keep the
lights on end quote. I mean, my
goodness, it's like you are staring at a
a burning fire going on your platforms
and your orders is for everybody to
cover their eyes. That's the the the
solution here. Um,
>> and Meta must be like seeing all of
these reports coming out in Reuters like
what are they are they saying anything?
Are they refuting these claims? Are they
making any comments? Again, there there
has been no claim the do that that the
documents are not legitimate. Uh the the
rebuttals are stuff like oh you know
Stone said that while layoffs had
occurred the company had substantially
expanded the number of staff addressing
scam advertising in recent years but
doesn't say how many doesn't say what
they're doing doesn't say how they've
been effective. Um it's uh pretty crazy.
Um, okay.
We got to read another [laughter] quote.
Okay.
According to a December 2024
presentation, Meta's user base is
exposed to 22 billion organic scam
attempts every day. That's on top of the
15 billion scam ads presented to users
daily. So, 15 billion from ads, 22
billion that don't involve advertising,
right? Um, and then now now here comes
another quote that is again incredible.
Quote, "Even when advertisers are caught
red-handed, the rules can be lenient."
The documents indicate a small
advertiser would have to get flagged for
promoting financial fraud at least eight
times before Meta blocked it. A 2024
document states some bigger spenders
known as highv value accounts could
acrue more than 500 strikes without Meta
shutting them down. Other documents say
that is incredible. I mean literally you
you can commit fraud 499 times that's
fine but 500 my goodness we're going to
have to do something about this. And
look it's just because it's so
incredibly lucrative. This is 10% of
Meta's advertising revenue. Okay, here's
the the craziest thing uh of all. Sadie,
>> I'm ready.
>> It gets worse. So, the letter that I
read
>> believe you anymore.
>> The the letter that I read was from
November 22nd. It was based on the
Reuters reporting to date uh on November
22nd. But on December 15th, another
incredible bombshell coming from
Reuters, uh, authored by Jeff Horowitz
and Angen Tom say that the link to China
in this story is also extraordinary that
Meta knows that a huge share of
fraudulent scam advertising is coming
from China, that they're making a lot of
money off it. And when they in
introduced safeguards that were
effective at reducing the amount of
fraud and scams coming from China, Mark
Zuckerberg noticed its effect on Meta's
revenue and shut down the anti-scam and
fraud task force.
>> Wow.
>> Wow.
>> Um, so yeah, this is why uh it's not
just the folks who are, you know,
calling for tech regulation, I'm sure,
are going to be activated by this. Um,
the China Hawks, I'm sure, are going to
have something to say uh by this. Here's
a here's a quote from the December 15th
story, which I strongly encourage
everyone to read. Though China's
authoritarian government bans use of
Meta social media by its citizens, Beta
Beijing lets Chinese companies advertise
to foreign consumers on the globe
spanning platforms. As a result, Meta's
advertising business was thriving in
China, ultimately reaching over $18
billion in annual sales in 2024, more
than a tenth of the company's global
revenue. But Meta calculated that about
19% of that money, more than $3 billion,
was coming from ads for scams, illegal
gambling, pornography, and other banned
content, according to Metaernal
documents reviewed by Reuters. Then it
goes on, the documents show that Meta
believed China was the country of origin
of roughly a quarter of all ads for
scams and banned products on Meta's
platforms worldwide. Victim victims
ranged from shoppers in Taiwan who
purchased bogus health supplements to
investors in the United States and
Canada who were swindled out of their
savings. Quote, "We need to make
significant investment to reduce growing
harm." End quote. Meta staffers warned
in an internal April 2024 presentation
to the leaders of its safety operations.
To that end, Meta created an anti-fraud
team that went beyond previous efforts
to monitor scams and other banned
activity from China. Using a variety of
stepped up enforcement tools, it slashed
the problematic ads by about half during
the second half of 2024 from 19% to 9%
of the total advertising revenue coming
from China. Then Meta chief executive
Mark Zuckerberg weighed in. Quote, "As a
result of integrity strategy pivot and
followup from Zuck," end quote. A late
2024 document notes the China ads
enforcement team was quote asked to
pause end quote its work. Reuters was
unable to learn the specifics of the
CEO's involvement or what the so-called
integrity strategy pivot entailed. But
after Zuckerberg's input, the doc the
documents show Meta disbanded its China
focused anti-scam team. It also lifted a
freeze it had introduced on granting new
Chinese ad agencies access to its
platforms.
And the final thing here is by mid 2025
banned ads climbed up to about 16% of
Meta's China revenue. So what does this
means? It means they know the harm is
being done.
They know how to stop it. They proved
they can stop it. But when it worked,
they didn't like the results and so they
shut down the operation to stop it. I am
sure that there's a lot of folks on
Capitol Hill whose blood is boiling as
they read these documents. It is an
extraordinary pattern of behavior. Um
it's it's difficult for me to imagine
that this story is not headed to
congressional hearings in addition to
the uh requested FEC FTC uh sorry SEC
and uh FTC investigations.
It's just truly truly remarkable stuff.
Satie,
>> it is pretty mind-blowing. And I'm so
glad that you did all the research so we
didn't have to. Um
>> no, I didn't do all that much research.
I mean, I'm just reading what what
Reuters is reporting here. So all all
credit to them. uh and and whatever
sources they have inside Meta that are
so forthcoming with these pretty juicy
internal documents.
>> Sure. So, let's bring this back to
policy real quick since we are on the AI
policy podcast and we were just talking
about the executive order. So, what do
examples like this say about what the
right level of regulation is for
technology um and AI more broadly? Yeah,
I I think uh at the risk of of driving
my audience insane, um I think the best
answer comes in the form of a quote from
the Reuters article.
>> Um so here's a quote from the November
6th piece from Reuters.
>> The documents note that Meta plans to
try and cut the share of Facebook and
Instagram revenue derived from scam ads.
In the meantime, Meta has internally
acknowledged that regulatory fines for
scam ads are certain and anticipates
penalties of up to $1 billion, according
to one internal document. But those
fines would be much smaller than Meta's
revenue from scam ads. A separate
document from November 2024 states,
"Every six months, Meta earns $3.5
billion from just the portion of scam
ads that quote present higher legal
risk." End quote. The document says,
and then it goes on, here it is, that
figure almost certainly exceeds quote
the cost of any regulatory settlement
involving scam ads, end quote. So, this
is them saying, "We know we're going to
lose in court. We know if the government
investigates us, we're going to be found
guilty,
but we don't care because our revenue
from this pattern of behavior exceeds
the expected fines. So, the fines are
just the cost of doing business." What
that says is even when it is illegal,
even when they know it's illegal,
it's so profitable that the existing
regulation is not an adequate deterrent
against the illegal behavior.
>> And there's no intention of behavior
change or fixing this.
>> Yes. So, I I I think I would bring this
back to the conversation we're having
around the world on AI regulation at
this moment. Um, it is true that in the
United States there is already a lot of
AI regulation, right? Um, you know, if
you take out a gun and you put AI on it
and you shoot somebody, you're still
guilty of murder, right? AI is not a get
out of jail free card. And that applies
to financial crimes. That applies to
harassment crimes. That, you know, just
using AI doesn't mean it's not illegal.
So all the stuff that is normally
illegal is still illegal in the era of
AI. But as we see you know the the
progress of technology changes the
balance of power between the actors in
the overall ecosystem and also changes
their their abilities to intervene and
prevent harm. This is the difference
between the phone company in the 1930s
not, you know, shutting off phone access
um because they don't know who's in the
mafia. Uh, and Facebook knowing every
single thing that every single person
says on their platform and every single
thing they do on their platform. Um, and
knowing when bad behavior is going on,
knowing when users are complaining about
bad behavior to the tune of hundreds of
of reports of illegal or fraudulent or
policy violating behavior, um, and not
doing anything about it. And so I I
think as I look at the AI policy
conversation, I'm sympathetic to both
sides on this debate. I know it is true
that you can design dumb regulations
that will stifle economic growth, that
will slow innovation. That is a real
thing to be concerned about. That can
happen. That has happened. But it is
also the case that there's an
extraordinary amount of bad behavior
going on out there. uh malicious
activity, you know, if it's not illegal,
it should be kind of activity. And that
is also a drain on the American economy
and innovation. I mean, my goodness, the
fact that there is uh according to uh
the UK, half of all financial scams to
the tune of tens of billions of dollars
annually are being facilitated by Meta
Platforms. Or the fact that onethird of
all fraud in the United States is being
facilitated by Meta Platforms.
That is a big drain on the American
economy. That is a big drain on people's
well-being and livelihoods. And I'm sure
no member of Congress is going to think
that it's okay that Chinese cyber
criminals are robbing Americans to the
tunes of tens of billions of dollars a
year. Nobody's going to think it's okay
just because Facebook gets a cut,
>> right? That is not a great argument. And
so we have to find a pattern of
regulations that can adequately
disincentivize bad behavior because
according to Meta's own internal
analysis, the penalties that they expect
are not severe enough to to to make it
worth their while to stop what's going
on on this platform. And now think
about, you know, what's going on uh in
the debate between the United States and
Europe. you know, the uh the Europeans
have regulations that are designed to
increase transparency into these
platforms, forcing them to for fork over
data about what takes place on these
platforms. And I think the wisdom of
that approach should be obvious at this
stage. And and what do I mean when I say
that? It's because if these documents
had not been leaked, we would not have
found out about all of this. And I think
it has been reported in other outlets
that in previous scenarios where Meta
has uh had internal documents leaked.
Their policy is not to stop the bad
behavior. The their policy is to ban the
creation of documents about their bad
behavior so that they can't be leaked
next time. And so what I'm getting at
here is that if the government does not
have a mechanism for visibility into
these platforms, you know, the window of
opportunity for detecting this and
shutting it down um and adequately
taking any steps to bring, you know,
sanity to this regime um is going to be
pretty tough. And again, this is social
media. There are relationships to AI.
And I think one of the strongest
connections to AI comes from uh Deis
Habibus who is the CEO of Google
DeepMind and he said quote we should
learn the lessons from social media
where this attitude of maybe move fast
and break things went ahead of the
understanding of what consequent second
and third order effects were going to
be. And Senator Blumenthal, who was a
co-author on that letter, he said uh
during a congressional hearing several
years ago, quote, "We had the same
choice when we faced social media. We
failed to seize that moment. The result
is predators on the internet, toxic
content, exploiting children, creating
dangers for them, and Senator Blackburn
and I and others like Senator Durban on
the Judiciary Committee are trying to
deal with it. But Congress failed to
meet the moment on social media. now we
have the obligation to do it on AI
before the threats and the risks become
real. So I think that is is sort of
where I come down here. Um there's
there's an AI part of this story
specifically on what's going on with
Meta, the fact that they're using
algorithms to recommend scams to their
users, but there's also just the
precedent of like what have we done in
tech regulation? Where was it wise to
not regulate and where was it not wise
to regulate? I think about GDPR for
example. I I I recall being in a room in
Europe uh with proponents of privacy
legislation and some one of the speakers
said would anybody please raise their
hand if they feel like GDPR has actually
protected Europeans privacy and no hands
went up. And that was in a room of
people who were pro privacy legislation.
And this isn't even really a privacy
argument here. This is about fraud scams
really harming people, robbing them of
their of their life savings in some
instances. And
you know, so I I I'm I'm sympathetic to
the arguments that that regulations like
GDPR didn't protect privacy, did harm
innovation, did slow economic growth.
But when you're looking at hundreds of
billions of dollars of fraud, that can
really harm economic growth, too. And we
need a regulatory regime that can
prevent us from making these categories
of mistakes in the era of AIS. And I
have to say if there's one thing Meta's
internal documents say incredibly
persuasively,
it's don't take Meta's public statements
at their word to be frank. And I think
the same has to be true of all
technology companies because while we
want to assume the best of intent, while
we want to uh assist American
enterprises in succeeding in the
marketplace, uh there's got to be some
degree of transparency that allows for a
trust but verify approach when the
stakes are this high.
>> Well, that's not a very optimistic way
to end the episode, but I think we've
covered a lot today. you've shocked me
and I've been entertained. So, um,
thanks so much for breaking all of this
down for us. I'm sure our audience found
it as helpful as I did and I had a great
time chatting with you. So, we'll, as
always, be following these topics and
I'm sure we'll talk about them again.
But, um, thanks so much for having me
back, Greg.
>> Well, thank you, Satie. And, uh, to to
all of our listeners, let me just say,
you you got to read these Reuter
stories. Um, we've been talking for an
hour here and we didn't even cover half
of it. Um, it's it's an extraordinary
amount of journalism. I am I am told
that there's more stuff that's going to
be coming out in in the coming weeks.
And as I said at the top of the this
podcast, I really think a good
understanding of this issue is a
prerequisite for intelligent
participation in the AI regulatory
debate going forward.
>> Great. Thanks so much, Greg.
>> Thanks, Andy.
Thanks for listening to this episode of
the AI Policy Podcast. If you like what
you heard, there's an easy way for you
to help us. Please give us a five-star
review on your favorite podcast platform
and subscribe and tell your friends. It
really helps when you spread the word.
This podcast was produced by Sarah
Baker, Satie McCulla, and Matt Mand. See
you next time.
