Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. I hope after 60
episodes or what it is always Rosie here
and as I've said many many many times.
This is just super for students and
young professionals and we are always
very interested in whatever has to do
with technology and yes it's regulation
and today sometimes we also talk about
well how technology comes into life and
how it's protected. So I am joined by my
colleague finally see you again Jako
welcome. Hi Rosie thank you really happy
to be here. Great to see you and I um I
am told I will struggle with this name
so I will make my best effort. Hello
Matt Lberen, how are you? Rosia, great
to great to meet you. Uh big fan of the
podcast. Uh yeah, hi everyone. I'm I'm
Mass. Uh I'm a co-founder of of
patel.com and have some student history
in of my own. uh I used to study
computer science and uh while I was
doing that I was also the the president
of uh within the world's largest youth
associations for young scientists and
engineers based here in Copenhagen
Denmark uh which was a very learning
experience uh I was part of managing 500
volunteers and uh that's one of the
reasons I I came into this whole area of
intellectual property and legal tech so
uh while I was doing this at at first 18
years old uh I got to meet some of the
the smartest people I've met today. Very
humbling for me going into kind of the
scientific world myself. So I started
getting into uh leadership and
entrepreneurship. Uh so while I was
studying I got the opportunity to work
directly under a bank executive and
build a uh AI product uh within uh the
company called Densker Bank and uh did
that for a few years and knew
immediately when I then graduated in
parallel that I wanted to found my own
company. and uh going out and going back
to some of these smart people I used to
volunteer with uh and talking with other
people in the innovation space which my
co-founder uh has been working with in
for many years as a serial inventor and
entrepreneur uh we just got so many
recommendations to help people with uh
patents and intellectual property
because they thought it was one of the
most important things for them and yet
this whole industry uh they felt like
had not really been disrupted or been
moved very far on the technological
side. So I a bit naively thought I could
build a amazing product in 12 18 months
to make something very cool on on the
legal tech side but now I'm here 7 years
in and we're still building an amazing
product but have many many years ahead
of building something cool.
After this uh this explanation that is
brilliant uh I would go immediately into
into the business as you said you're
you're working in the field of patents
and intellectual property. So from your
perspective what are the most
significant changes through which AI is
reshaping uh the intellectual property
landscape today? I think there are there
are two things happening. Uh so the the
first thing is services like uh renewals
like like we work in at patol.com and
I've been spending so much time creating
technology for they're going away from
from IP law usually taking this work on
uh to now being a service that you can
fully automate. AI is a big part of that
in making that possible but ultimately
speaking the core software is actually
very rigid like it has to be 100%
correct all of the time which is still
not achievable by AI but the support of
AI to be able to build that product is
one way innovating this area but I think
this is just a small thing and and
that's where we're started as a company
the big change AI is doing right now is
making people that work with IP whether
that's inside companies or at IP law
firms or firms, they're making them so
much more efficient if they're using
these technologies correctly. Uh, which
is causing a very very interesting
change in the industry. I think uh just
making these people more efficient of
course is a drastic change. But I think
my personal take of what's going to
happen in the industry and what
generally is happening with legal tech
is that most people they don't really
want to talk with their law firm or
their IP law firm. They do it because
they create so much value and they're so
important to them, but they would much
rather just put something into like an
AI model and ask, "Hey, is this
possible? Can I do this?" And then I get
a quick opinion and if the model says,
"Yes, you can do it. I'm very sure."
Then they want to go to the their lawyer
instead of like them writing the model
saying that's absolutely not possible.
This is never going to happen. Then they
save those, you know, 5 10 increase to
their law firm. Uh, and that's going to
make everyone in the R&D teams, in the
teams that work with IP and legal across
the entire company so much more
efficient and kind of cost so much more
innovation around the world, which I'm
very excited about.
And following up on this, h how is AI
being used to streamline processes like
patent searches, novelty assessments,
and for example, portfolio management?
Do you have some I don't know specific
examples that could help us understand
better what is going on and also for our
listeners. Yeah, of course. So when you
when you get an idea and you want to
explore whether that's patentable, you
do these yeah novelty searches figuring
out is this even patentable or not? And
there are a ton of cool companies. I'm
very connected with company based here
in Eboro called IP Rally for example
that is very focused in in this space.
uh and what they're doing is they're
providing a a platform for for anyone
actually but I think their their target
audience is larger companies uh who are
looking to figure out if their new
inventions is patentable or not. So I
think some companies are already with
that tool going as far as only using
that uh and not even using experts to um
to see if their idea has novelty or not.
Uh but a lot of companies are then once
again using it to streamline and make
their processes so efficient that you
know before going to their law firm and
making sure with a thousand% certainty
that it makes sense going further with
applying for getting this patent at the
patent authorities uh then they you know
do these checks with more and more
ideas. So the volume of these checks
they can increase has been you know the
possibility has increased by you know
100 or thousandfold uh and they get so
quick dynamic feedback in the R&D teams
and across the organizations that uh
they they don't need to go with to their
you know law firm expert every single
time
and in terms of type of technology we
say AI but AI means so much and even the
European Union is not too sure about the
definition of AI system model and and
everything else. What what kind of AI
are we dealing with? I know that it's a
very technical question, but I can
assure you we also have tech people
listening to this podcast. Of course.
Well, uh you know, a lot of this
technology is of course built
confidentially in the company. So I I
cannot say everything with with full
certainty. uh but I think the the
technology that is most interesting for
building and solving very complicated
problems is in within IP is self-built
AI software. So unlike many startups in
in the space building you know just on
top of these new LM models out there and
not really building AI themselves that's
not a lot of what we're seeing. Uh
people are of course still using that
but I don't haven't seen many IP
specific softwares that are doing that.
I think the hardcore softwares like uh
IP re I just mentioned for novelty
searches they are building their own
like multimodal models that are looking
at so many different data sets and are
combining different AI uh technologies
within one product to give the best
possible service. uh how we are using it
internally in in in my company is that
we've tried to you know build an AI
product to audit our own software to
make sure that our core software
renewing patents is as best as possible
so that we catch mistakes early on if
there are any.
Oh, and talking about catching mistakes,
I am a very um sloppy person sometimes.
I do I I'm very untidy in a terrible way
and I do miss I do make a lot of
mistakes and I'm thinking of when the
lawyer the person gets kind of like this
cyborg
um meddle with the AI like how do you
ensure that um for example lawyers and
in general IP experts are trained well
enough to have to do with all of this AI
which is incredible But it's also like
it sounds very difficult to understand
for someone who doesn't come from an
engineering background.
Oh, for sure. Uh I think the more the
further we get into this, the better
user experience are being created. We're
very focused in our company in creating
a very good and easy experience where
you don't need to read complicated guide
books to work with the software that I
would be working with day-to-day if I
needed to get renewals done. So I think
the same goes for these other products.
They're trying to make the user
experience as easy as possible. I think
the more difficult training and what I
would fear happening in the industry is
that people get so addicted to or
dependent on these products and services
uh that they forget about how difficult
these things actually are. Like a a
wrong uh how do you say assessment on
the novelty of an idea and whether it's
patentable might mean that you don't go
down that route even though it was
actually the right route to go down
patenting it. in our company and that's
why we we don't use AI as a core thing.
If uh if we make the wrong decision on
like what when is the right time to
renew a patent, a billion dollar
patentable idea might get lost and now
it's public domain. Everything is super
super critical. So having these ultimate
human experts to validate both the
software and the AI, but also in the
case where it's an AI doing the entire
service or product, you need that human
element in the end if you want to be
absolutely sure that you're getting the
the right kind of software experience
within IP
and in your view in what ways uh can AI
be both a challenge we can think for
example of copyright issues and also at
the same time a solution for example for
infringement detection for managing
intellectual property rights. Yeah, of
course. So, I think what what what I'm
seeing is that especially a lot of big
companies, but not as far enough in in
smaller and mediumsiz companies and and
law firms is that uh they're starting to
use these kind of in-house models on top
of uh how do you say the different AI
softwares you can get. Of course, it's
it's hard to do it with a specific
product that have built their own AI
service, but when you're working with a
large language model like Claude or Open
AAI as Chat GBC, it's it's if you're
using those products just directly in
your browser, you are just giving away
copyright forever whatever you're
pasting in there. Uh and that's of
course a huge challenge for
confidentiality and uh your IP as a
company. So I think what I'm seeing the
largest companies in the world doing is
using how do you say providers that
remove that step. So they're using kind
of an in-house version of these
technologies so they don't fall behind
by not using them at all but also so
they don't give away their IP in the
process of using them. Uh most of my
network working these large corporations
they are banned to use you know just
chat GBT in the browser for work. they
have to use the internal version and I
think that's where the world is going
more and more on the business side. I
think what's very cool about uh
especially uh copyrights and
infringement protection is kind of the
same thing that that I mentioned earlier
with with the scale of how much more you
can do with fewer people. So with
something like infringement these
technologies uh whether it's all
traditional software but especially now
with AI that can grab so fast and and
broad you can catch so many more things
you wouldn't be able to do with human
resources like you you could cannot hire
like 4,000 people to only work on
infringement for your company. No one
can afford that. But these technologies
can go to some weird edge of the
internet and find some small
infringement that you would never have
found yourself. And then once again
ultimately probably some human expert
needs to verify everything. But your
volume just increases so so broadly that
to a level that you have never been able
to achieve before and it in severely
increases kind of the protection of your
IP as a company once you start fully
embracing these tools and as they get
better and better every single week as
they are these uh these days.
Um talking a bit about that human expert
today I'm feeling very human. I'm
actually asking everything about humans.
Um, do you see the human expert, the the
person that needs to kind of like
monitor all the AI detections and kind
of see whether they actually work or not
at the end? Do you see them trusting the
process? Do you see them trusting the
AI? Or do you see them being a bit more
kind of yes, but are we sure? Like do
you think they are overwork because they
don't trust the AI for example?
Well, I think the these AI models are
good at different things. Uh so there
are some things where they're not there
yet, but I think things are changing so
quickly. Uh we started working with a
lot of AI products many years ago in our
company and when we initially started
working with them, they were horrible.
Uh it was just a waste of our time. But
we've tried to make a practice of
checking in with the progress very
frequently. uh because what might lose
your time today because they're just you
know hallucinating some sort of uh you
know bad prediction of what what you
need to get done uh today might be
actually better than or close to as good
as you tomorrow. So it's common practice
in a lot of different legal companies
that you use younger junior people to do
the hard leg work for you. And I think
what I'm starting to see is that a lot
of these models are getting to that
level. So you should do things with
caution like you wouldn't, you know,
give your most important case with your
largest customer solely fully
responsibly to one of your junior guys
that started last week. You wouldn't do
that with the AI models as they are
right now. But you absolutely have to
keep in check with how they're
progressing all the time uh to make sure
you actually understand the power of
these models. And I've I've even seen
them like launch a new version and now
it's worse than they were last week just
because they're better overall. But just
specifically what for what you're doing
they got bad uh or worse at least. So I
think it's so important to keep in check
and uh kind of do quality assurance. I
think how how most companies should
think about this is that uh most people
within a company have just kind of
gotten a new army of employees and just
like any employee you need to make sure
that they're performing and that they're
living up to the quality and the
standard you have as a company. And if
you don't do that, then you might as
well not use these tools because one
point you'll potentially make a risk uh
uh or mistake so big that it wouldn't
have been worth saving the time you got
it there. But if you do it correctly,
you can just create so much more value
for yourselves or your customers.
Um one last question before the last
last question. Um you said that you
worked a lot as a student in student
organizations and you've been
volunteering loads now. So you I am a
student. So imagine you were me and
imagine you wanted to um start your
career and you think that patent
litigation and in general the patent um
framework is a very very interesting
sector for you to work in and yet you
listen to this podcast and you find out
that there are armies of AI um tools
that make the process much quicker but
also mean that there's less need for a
young person who just been hired and
probably is set down to a very kind of
like repetitive work so to learn the
job. So I'm not saying that um AI should
be stopped so that young students can
actually find a job in the future or
train in their job. I'm asking you to
give us an advice. What do you think we
should train on and we should be ready
to face so that you know the type of
work we're offering doesn't become
obsolete considering that the AI
revolution is now a necessity for
companies.
Yeah, I think this revolution as you as
you say I agree with that is happening
across any any industry. Uh I think
specifically a lot of interesting things
are happening within the legal space and
legal tech space because uh people are
starting to rely on these tools uh
instead of going to uh their their law
firm or IP law firm as they used to uh
to a different degree than rather than
going to their their boss as you might
do in other industries. Uh so I think
the the the revolution is not going to
slow down like even if it slows down
here in Europe, it will just continue to
speed up in other countries around the
world. So I I personally think you have
to look at it from an opportunistic
perspective no matter where you are. And
uh my experience is that most companies
around the world uh they're way too slow
at adapting at these tools. So if you
really jump in with both legs and become
an expert in using these tools, I
actually think that you could, you know,
use that opportunity to become the the
first partner ever in some sort of legal
firm or uh be get a lot more
responsibility, be the higher performer
compared to your new colleagues in the
first job. So I think no matter what
area you're working in, you just have to
be uh the new expert in these tools uh
and keep check with everything because I
think even many many months many years
from now when when people who are
studying at the moment would have
graduated I think most companies will
still be so behind and it's going to be
painfully obvious uh in these larger
companies that are not as quickly to
adapt at innovation. So you coming in
giving that push will be a great
opportunity uh for for you and the
company. Uh I think historically what
what I when I graduated and had my first
job in the the banking industry I could
do with my software experience which was
already a huge revolution for them like
very concretely on my first day of my
job I saved the company around €200,000
a year on my first day just with
software. uh these type of things is
just going to be more and more crazy in
the future. So if you master these
tools, the amount of value you can
create compared to what someone like I
could when I had my first job, it's just
going to be tremendous. Uh and uh
thinking more holistically, not about
just completing a job, but what how can
I create value for a company? How can I
use these tools to not just you know
execute on this specific task I got for
my boss better but how can I use these
tool to just innovate uh and improve the
performance of a company. I think a lot
of different people are thinking a lot
about that and I know uh with me kind of
coming from the startup scaleup industry
and speaking with a lot of uh interested
investors all the time that uh there's
right now kind of a boom from from
investors to actually look into large
companies and use AI to boost those
companies because they have a lot of
customer bases. They have a big
foundation and if they manage to apply
these tools correctly, they can actually
start to maybe even compete a little bit
better with the startups of the world
because they don't need as large of a
technology team because they get much of
it provided for these tools.
Wow. I'm really excited to start
learning a bit more about all of this.
Um, so I mean for all of our listeners
guys, you've you've heard this. You
should start going and and learning
about AI and how it works. But for
anyone who's not looking for a job,
I'm going to ask you Matt, it's your
moment. You have one minute. You can
pitch your company. Do it as best as you
can. You go.
Yeah. I can always pitch pitch my my
company for anyone but I think what what
I more care about is our vision. So our
company was founded to help some of the
smartest people in the world to to make
a difference. Uh and I think one of the
the core foundations we have is that we
want to just simply uh help disrupt and
innovate the the life cycle from someone
gets an amazing idea until they can get
protection of it. With all of these new
tools coming out to help support people
work more efficiently, h it's going to
be so important that you have the rights
to the RCS and inventions and the
barrier to getting that is just way too
expensive and way too complicated at the
moment. So we want to create an amazing
company that takes people from the
moment they get their idea until they
have protection as fast, cheap, and easy
as possible so they can focus their time
and energy with modern technology in
solving the most most important
problems. And that's what we've started
doing with building patm.com. But at
some point, we'll probably change our
name and do something much broader and
much more amazing within the IP
industry. Uh, and uh, that's what makes
me and the team excited about what we're
building.
Oh, and we won't be exclusive on legal
for whenever you make this big change
from pattern.com to the infinite and
beyond. Uh, you have to promise me.
Thank you so much. So this was all for
this episode of Legal for Tech the
podcast. I shall thank my colleague
Jakamal for joining me today and helping
me as always. Thank you to you Rossi and
let's both thank our great great guest
and CEO and founder of patent.com and
beyond as we saw Matzville. Thank you so
so much for joining us today. Thank you
guys.
I
