[Music]
Welcome back to the AI policy podcast.
Today we'll cover Trump's newly struck
licensing deal with Nvidia and AMD,
concerns about AIdriven economic
bubbles, and AI adoption in the federal
government. I'm Belle Hill, and with me
as always is Greg Allen. Hey, Greg.
>> Hello. Great to be talking with you
again. And we're back pretty quick this
time.
>> Yeah, two weeks in a row. Let's keep it
rolling. Well, speaking of, last week I
promised that H20 export controls would
continue to be a recurring topic on this
podcast. I wasn't kidding, but I
actually didn't think it would be
literally the next week that we'd be
talking about it. Um, but on August 10,
several media outlets reported that
Nvidia and AMD had struck deals with the
Trump administration to gain access to
semiconductor expert licenses. These
deals include sharing 50% 15% of revenue
from China sales with the government.
And on August 11th, during a press
conference, Trump also said that Nvidia
CEO Jensen Wang was quote coming to see
him about licenses for degraded
Blackwell trips. Can you tell me about
this press conference with uh with uh
President Trump? Yeah, we learned a lot
in this press conference uh that
President Trump had on August 11th and
the entire section where he's talking
about the negotiations with Nvidia um
how this deal came together actually I
would say contradicts some earlier
statements that we had gotten from the
administration specifically um that
Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnik had
stated in terms of the H20 deal being a
deal with China, not a deal with Nvidia
and being negotiated to remove export
controls from China on rare earth
magnets. So, um I know not everybody is
going to be excited to hear some me read
some long quotations from President
Trump and Secretary Lutnik, but I think
it's actually pretty important to get
the full picture of the story. Um so
bear with me, folks. Uh here we go. This
is uh President Trump. And no, I'm not
going to do a bad impersonation. I'm
just going to read it in a regular
voice. And I deal with Jensen, who is a
great guy, and Nvidia. The chip that
we're talking about, the H20, it's an
old chip. China already has it in a
different form, different name, but they
have it or they have a combination of
two will make up for it, and even then
some. Now, Jensen also has Jensen's a
very brilliant guy. And Jensen has a new
chip, the Blackwell. Do you know what
the Blackwell is? The Blackwell is super
duper advanced. I wouldn't make a deal
with that. Although it's possible I'd
make a deal, a somewhat enhanced in a
negative way Blackwell. In other words,
take 30 to 50% off of it. But that's the
latest and greatest in the world. Nobody
has it. They won't have it for 5 years.
But the H20 is obsolete. You know, it's
one of those things, but it still has a
market. So I said, "Listen, I want 20%
if I'm going to approve this for you,
for the country, for our country, for
the US. I don't want it for my I don't
want it myself." You know, every time I
say like like 747, I want I want Yeah.
for the Air Force. So I just want it. So
when I say I want 20, I want for the
country. I only care about the country.
I don't care about myself. and he said,
"Will you take will you make it 15?" So,
we negotiate a little deal. So, he's
selling a essentially old chip that
Huawei has a similar chip, a chip that
does the same thing. And I said, "Good.
If I'm going to give it to you because
they have a, you know, they have a
stopper, what we call a stopper, not
allowed to do it. They restrict it. It's
really known as a restrictive covenant."
And I said, "If I'm going to do that, I
want you to pay us as a country
something because I'm giving you a
release. I release them only from the
the H20." Now, on the Blackwell, I think
he's coming to see me again about that,
but that will be an unenhanced version
of the big one. Like, I don't know if
you know it, we will sometimes sell
fighter jets to a country and we'll give
them 20% less than we have. You know
what I mean, right? So, there's a lot in
that quote. There's a lot in that quote,
but I think the big thing here is uh
first he's negotiating this deal
directly with Nvidia CEO Jensen Hang.
So, that that is President Trump
confirming a lot of the speculation
around this that it was Jensen's visit
to the White House that did move the
needle in the overall negotiations. Um
the second thing is he's saying is he
does want, you know, there to be this
15%
uh markup that the government is going
to capture off the value of the H20s
that are sold to China. Now, think about
this for a second. He it's President
Trump who is making the comparison uh to
fighter jets in this story, right? So,
he's talking about national security
sensitive items, these H20 chips. and
he's saying that because Nvidia is going
to pay the government money, the United
States is going to overlook those
national security concerns. Notice that
this is a very different narrative from
what you heard from the Secretary of
Commerce previously. He had said that
actually selling the chips would be a
national security benefit because it
would enhance China's dependence on
American technology. President Trump
does not make that point. President
Trump does not say that selling H20s to
China is good for US national security.
He says that we're going to get more
money and that's the benefit that the
United States is extracting from this
story. And there I simply have to
disagree. Um, I suppose one could make
the argument that there is some dollar
figure where it would be in America's
national security interest to sell China
advanced AI chips. Right? If China had
had offered and was legitimately willing
in this farcical scenario I'm about to
offer, but if they were willing to pay
$30 trillion for the chips, right? Well,
that's more than all of US GDP for an
entire year. We could fund the
Department of Defense for 30 years off
of that money. So, yes, you could have a
national security return on investment
positive approach to selling China the
chips at that price. Nvidia has said
that their write off for the H20s that
they had previously negotiated deals to,
but then they had to cancel those deals.
when they were talking to their
investors, they said the write off of
the value of all those deals when the
H20s were going to be banned was $5
billion.
So what is 15% of $5 billion? It's in
the ballpark of like $600 million. Is
$600 million going to undo the national
security risk uh of this situation? Like
who is going to extract more benefit
from this situation in national security
terms? Is it China or is it America? I
would say it is China by a widewide
margin and $600 million comes nowhere
close to making that calculation
different. And I think it's fair to say
that the Secretary of Commerce, Howard
Lutnik, agrees with me, or at least he
did in his June 11th CNBC interview.
This is where he was saying that he
viewed na chip export controls as
critical to national security and that
the administration would not budge
despite frequent requests from China
during trade negotiations. So here's
what um Secretary Lutnik told CNBC on
June 11th. Quote the Chinese side always
wants to remove our export controls. You
know they always try to remove our
export controls. And Scott Bessant,
that's the secretary of treasury. Scott
Bessant gave one of my favorite lines of
the whole negotiation. He said, "Really?
No. So, you want no export controls?
Fine. I'd like to take home a couple of
your best hypersonic missiles, please.
Can I have them?" So, it was just
disarming. So, what what Secretary
Lutnik is saying in that is that number
one, export controls are a part of US
national security. China is asking for
them constantly and America is saying no
and they're explicitly saying, you know,
hey, you China, you have export controls
too on stuff like your advanced
hypersonic missiles, some of which are
arguably better than America's. Are you
going to sell those to us? That kind of
a thing. And apparently that went over
well in the negotiation. So here here's
what Letic then went on to say. Quote,
"We are competing with China on in the
AI race, okay, for sure. So we are just
not going to give them our best chips.
And of course they want them. Americans
are the greatest inventors in the world.
We are the greatest thinkers in the
world, the greatest entrepreneurs in the
world. All the greatest chips in the
world are American, right? So of course
they want them and of course they want
to use them. And of course we said
absolutely not. Did they ask? Did they
ask 20 times, 30 times? Of course they
did. They do every time. And we always
say no. So there is uh Secretary Lutnik
saying China asked him 20 or 30 times to
remove these advanced AI chip export
controls and the administration did not
budge. It did not budge on national
security grounds. Now fast forward a
bit. That was June 11th, July 15th.
Secretary Lutnik told Reuters in an
interview that resuming H20 sales was
part of the trade deal with China to
eliminate export controls on rare
earths, magnets, and other critical
minerals. He said, quote, "We put that
in the trade deal with the magnets."
Here's the thing. President Trump just
said the opposite. He said it was not
part of the trade deal with the magnets.
And if you listen to what Lutnik says
elsewhere in terms of the punitive
export controls that were express US
retaliation for the Chinese export
controls on rare earths, he's talking
about things like ethane export
controls. He's talking about jet engine
part export controls. He was not saying
that part of the coercive leverage that
the United States was putting in
retaliation for rare earth and critical
mineral export controls was the H20s.
The H20s was a separate decision made on
national security grounds. And President
Trump undid that decision. He undid that
decision and he did it for 15% of
Nvidia's revenue. And I think we have
one final data point, right, that says
that it was not part of the uh deal to
eliminate the export controls on rare
earths. And this is something that we
talked about in the last podcast, but
I'll just uh refresh it here. This is
the July 18th press release from the
Chinese Minister Ministry of Commerce
where it said quote, "We noticed that
the US side recently again on its own
initiative expressed that it will
approve the sale to China of Nvidia H20
chips." So, China says it wasn't part of
the deal. President Trump says it wasn't
part of the deal. Lutnik had said it was
part of the deal. I just don't think
that that's credible now that we have
all of this information. And I think the
national security implications of this
deal don't come out to me in any kind of
positive way. It would take way way way
more than a few hundred million to
change America's strategic national
security calculus in the AI competition.
But in the case of China,
these AI chips can change the strategic
calculation because as we said before,
the CEO of DeepSeek, the executive vice
president of cloud computing at Tencent,
they are all saying that the number one
bottleneck that their whole country is
facing in the AI race is these AI chips.
And that is a problem that we just
willingly solved for them. And finally,
just to connect it to something I again
said last time, it's true that Huawei
wants to produce all the AI chips for
China. It is true that China would like
to stop using Nvidia in the same way
that I would like China to stop using
Nvidia, but they need a bridge to that
future. And the question is, is America
going to build that bridge for them to
help them have a calm, smooth transition
to a Huawei dominated future? That's
what we're doing with these H20 export
controls. As I said in 2020,
the Chinese government was already had
already passed a government mandate to
eliminate the use of Nvidia chips within
3 years. It was export controls that
blocked Huawei from being able to
replace Nvidia. It was export controls
that killed that Chinese mandate. And
they still have the same leadership. In
fact, they're more hawkish now than they
were then. So, they are absolutely
committed to getting rid of Nvidia. We
can see that right now in the cyber
security investigations that they have
against Nvidia, in the antirust
investigations that they have against
Nvidia. And the obvious choice for China
is Nvidia now, Huawei later, because
Huawei is not ready now. The Huawei
chips are bad and they can't make very
many of them. But if we give them a
multi-year supply of Nvidia chips, that
is the bridge to their Huawei future. We
should not be building them that bridge.
That's my conclusion on this story.
Well, I I highly encourage any of our
listeners who didn't catch last week's
episode to go back and listen to that
one because we did talk through the
entire timeline and the existing debate
up to this point. Now, I want to ask
about how the same groups that were
criticizing the uh unbanning, how
they're reacting to these deals, I'm
talking about uh criticism from folks in
Congress, previous Trump officials, a
broad group of national security
experts. Yeah, I I can't find anybody in
the United States national security
community who is in favor of this deal.
And what I mean by that is even the
people who were in favor of selling H20s
through the logic of, you know, we're
perpetuating Chinese dependence on
Nvidia chips. That's a logic I don't
subscribe to. But the point is there are
people out there who subscribe to it. I
can't find anybody in the national
security community who is defending a
deal that is a 15% export tax on Nvidia,
saying that somehow this is good for US
national security. So, let's hear from
Republicans. Uh, Representative Molinar,
the chair of the House Select Committee
on the Chinese Communist Party, said,
quote, "Export controls are a frontline
defense in protecting our national
security, and we should not set a
precedent that incentivizes the
government to grant licenses to sell
China technology that will enhance its
AI capabilities."
Uh, Representative Krishna Murphy, who's
the Democrat Democratic ranking member
on the same committee, he released a
statement saying, quote, "Most troubling
is the contradiction at the heart of
this potential policy. The
administration cannot simultaneously
treat semiconductor exports as both a
national security threat and a revenue
opportunity. By putting a price on our
security concerns, we signal to China
and our allies that American national
security principles are negotiable for
the right fee. There's a few other
people whose statements out here I think
are are insightful and I and I want to
uh quote them as well. Um one is Liza
Tobin who served in the first Trump
administration on the National Security
Council. She's a longtime China expert
and she told the Financial Times, quote,
"Bijing must be gloating to see
Washington turn export licenses into
revenue streams. What's next? Letting
Loheed Martin sell F-35s to China for a
15% commission?" Or Leonard Heim uh over
at Rand, he said, quote, "If the goal is
dependency and revenue from China's AI
market, why sell?" And he means why sell
the chips. He goes on, "Cloud and remote
access delivers both without giving away
the hardware. Keep the revenue, keep
some control. Selling chips is just
giving away leverage for nothing." I'm
inclined to agree.
>> So, one of the concerning parts of this
um in addition to the national security
uh implications is the 15% deal um
getting 50 15% of the revenues. Some
policy an analysts have claimed that
this is unconstitutional.
Um do you expect this 15% deal to last
or how how is that shaping up?
>> Yeah. So if it is structured as an
export tax um that is unambiguously
unconstitutional. Um it goes back to the
history of the United States and the
formation of us uh from the Articles of
Confederation into the United States of
America under the Constitution. and
southern states were really worried
because they were large agricultural
exporters. They were worried that
northern states uh were going to tax
their exports, you know, and they were
going to asymmetrically benefit in sort
of a interstate competition kind of a
thing. So, one of the things they
negotiated in writing the constitution
was no taxes on exports. It's like
that's not the exact line in the
constitution, but it's very very close.
So, if it's structured as a tax on
exports, it's unambiguously
unconstitutional. Now the thing is any
company is free to reach the conclusion
that they are undertaxed and to offer up
more money to the American government's
treasury. So if Nvidia, you know, says,
"Hey, this is a voluntary contribution,
etc., etc." Um, maybe they can do that.
And even if it's structured as an export
tax, courts are only going to overturn
it um if Nvidia sues. And Nvidia
obviously doesn't want to sue because
they want this deal to go forward. But
let me put it a different way. Nvidia
doesn't want to sue now, right? As long
as this is continuing. So you could
imagine a future in which for example uh
Nvidia is paying all of these fees as
export taxes. They're refusing to sue
and then uh President Trump is term
limited, right? He only gets two terms
as president under the Constitution just
like everyone else. So we're going to
have a new president in 2029.
Well, in 2029, Nvidia could come back
and say, "Oh, you're changing the policy
to ban these exports. Well, we want to
sue you for those unconstitutional
export control taxes. So, I was just
waxing on for far too long about how
this money is nowhere near enough to
allay the national security concerns.
And I would just agree with those who
said we shouldn't be in the in the
calculus of thinking about, you know,
what the price is that would allay our
national security concerns. But here's
the thing, we might not even get to keep
the money. Like, Nvidia can just sue
later and get all of their money back.
And so we'll have all of the national
security uh consequences and none of the
money. Um I really hope that this does
not go forward.
>> So obviously again we always say this,
we'll continue to watch this on the
podcast, but what are you going to be
watching for specifically with these
deals?
>> Well, I think one of the things that was
in President Trump's press conference
was something about the Blackwell
generation. So, um, and he said, "I
think Jensen is coming to see me soon
about that." So, what could he be mean?
What could he mean, um, in that
conversation? Well, number one, uh,
Jensen Hang, the CEO of Nvidia, has said
specifically that he wants to be able to
sell more advanced chips to China than
the H20. He does want to sell the
Blackwells. And I mean, that's
consistently
been his preference. If you go back 10
years when there were no export
controls, there was no difference. or
actually even just five years um there
was no difference in the products that
Nvidia sold China versus the rest of the
world. So he has a demonstrated
preference right to sell his latest and
greatest stuff uh to China.
The Blackwell chips uh Nvidia is
currently working on a product that
would be a degraded version of the
Blackwell chip. So President Trump
called it enhanced in a negative way
which is an interesting use of the word
enhanced. Um, but that that idea that
we're going to degrade the black wells,
the point is they're still going to be
making progress. I mean, they're not
going to degrade it so much that it's
worse than the H20, obviously. Um, and
the H20, you know, you call it an
obsolete chip, but the strategic
calculus is that it's far far better
than anything China can make and it
addresses a massive pain point in the
Chinese AI ecosystem at this exact
present moment. And keep in mind, you
know, the when when we say, you know,
that the Blackwell is the latest and
greatest generation, the Hopper
generation of GPUs was the
state-of-the-art less than a year ago. I
mean, the Blackwells are quite quite
new. So, um, if we start selling
degraded black wells, I mean, China is
going to get a lot of strategic benefit
from that. That I sincerely hope that
the administration goes back to the
position that it had that I thought
Secretary Lutnik expressed extremely
well, right, that um, okay, if you want
us to sell your AI chips, can we buy
your hypersonic missiles? Are you trying
to say that export controls are
illegitimate? Um, this is, uh, where I
hope we end up.
>> Yeah. Well, uh, to our listeners, we
will continue to revisit and follow
these deals as they move forward. Um, I
do want to stick on sort of the
economic, uh, part of AI and move over
to, um, talking about AI as a potential
spending bubble. Um, so over the past
few weeks, a wave of stories have
spotlighted the unprecedented surge in
AI investment. From big tech's massive
infrastructure buildouts to Wall
Street's growing enthusiasm, the rapid
acceleration has raised concern about
whether that the boom could turn into a
bubble. Could you start us off with a
little bit of econ 101 for those of you
like myself who has not thought about
econ 101 in quite a while? How do e
economic bubbles form and what happens
when they pop? Certainly and I think
it's actually helpful that you know this
wave of stories has sort of uh come
across the media ecosystem. It's worth
pointing out that this happens from time
to time. I mean I remember when there
was a lot of stories about is the tech
market a bubble in 2014. I remember it
again in 2018 2019. So you could say hey
this just comes and it's actually not
that big of a deal. Could this time be
different? I think absolutely. So let's
revisit you know what is a bubble here.
I'm just reading the definition from
investopedia. Quote an economic cycle
that is characterized by the rapid
escalation of market value particularly
in the price of assets. This fast
inflation is followed by a quick
decrease in value or a contraction that
is sometimes referred to as a crash or a
bubble burst. So the key here is that
like the valuations of all the big tech
companies have been going through the
roof and it's being driven by AI mania.
Um you can see that in a lot of the
valuations of these companies. You have
companies like Nvidia which is
monstrously profitable growing at an
extraordinary rate. Um but you know are
they generating $4 trillion worth of
revenue? like not even close. So when
you think about the price of a stock and
I I went to business school, so uh bear
with me while as I nerd out here, but
you know, you can think about the uh the
fundamental value of a stock, which is
if you just think about it as okay,
companies are machines that generate
money. That money can be given back to
investors in the form of dividends. So
when you think about what is the stock
worth, you should think about how much
profit it's going to make in the future.
that's going to result in how many
dividends and what is the sort of profit
sharing on a per share basis and then
you discount the value back to what it's
worth now because money in the future is
worth less than money right now and
that's that's how you think about the
fundamental value of a stock. Anything
above that, you know, really deals with
uh the multiple, which is just sort of
how the market is perceiving different
types of assets beyond what you might
call the quote unquote core value. So
like the core value of Pokemon cards is
like really really low, but there's a
lot of people who will buy them. And so
they have this value that is, you know,
beyond uh their quote unquote
fundamental ability to generate money um
that is tied to market reality. And if
you look where we are today with some of
these companies valuations, I thought
The Economist uh today August 12th had a
great story called Palunteer might be
the most overvalued firm of all time.
And they're making the explicit
connection to Cisco. Cisco, which makes
a lot of networking and
telecommunications equipment. Well, back
in the in the.com bubble, um, which was
in the year 2000, Cisco was the world's
most valuable company, and they were
trading at, uh, the the market
valuation. So, the value if you take the
value of each share of stock and you
multiply it by the number of shares that
exist,
their valuation was 200 times Cisco's
annual profit. They were worth a
trillion dollars 25 years ago. And that
was like the peak of the dot bubble
which was a very painful bubble for the
US economy to go through. Palunteer
which has had a great year in terms of
revenue growth in terms of profit
growth. Uh they're selling like crazy.
Customers love their stuff
>> and getting a lot of contracts right
>> and getting a lot of contracts with the
US government among other things. But
their their valuation is currently $430
billion which is 600 times this past
year's profit. And I think um I think uh
the economist puts in a helpful
comparison here which is if you go back
to 2005 that's the year that the Oxford
English dictionary declared Google to be
a verb. Well Google's price to sales
ratio was 22.
22 was the value of all their stock
shares combined compared to how much
profit they made this year. Palunteer is
at more than 600. So these valuations
are skyhigh. They're far beyond the
intrinsic value of of the stock. Now
that doesn't necessarily mean the value
is quote unquote wrong, just like the
value of Pokemon cards is just like what
people are willing to pay for it for
example. But if this is a bubble, if
this is like the dot crisis where it's
really just mania, where stock
valuations become unreasonably divorced
from the intrinsic value of the stocks?
Well, the reason why you care is that
those things often tend to end badly and
they often tend to end suddenly. So,
what's driving, you know, all of this uh
mania? Well, number one, it's it's AI
and the excitement around AI as a
revolutionary technology on a par with
electricity, on a par with the steam
engine, uh on a par with the internet.
It is a really legitimately
transformative technology experiencing
an incredible moment. Here's the thing,
though. The internet was also a
legitimately transformative technology.
And that doesn't mean that the
valuations of 1999 or 2000 were true.
Um, and especially doesn't mean they're
true for every company. I mean, Amazon,
uh, Amazon was around back then and they
were astonishingly valuable and after
the bubble crashed, their stock fell by
more than 90%.
I mean, it ultimately recovered, but
there was a period of time where uh,
their valuation was so divorced from the
amount of money they were making. Um,
and and that was Amazon, which was a
good business even then. It was a good
bet. Even then there was other companies
that were completely vaporware. This is
what I mean like Palanteer is a good
business. They make a lot of profits.
The question is just like and based on
that how much should their stock price
be? Um well right now you know all the
companies uh in this sector are
investing jawdropping amounts of money.
I mean we're looking at um Google,
Microsoft, Amazon, Meta, some others
like OpenAI like Enthropic. They're
looking at like nearly $400 billion
dollars in capital expenditures. That's
like half of what the United States
government spends on the DoD, like the
Department of Defense. So, we're talking
percentage points of GDP
are going to be a part of AI capital
expenditure this year. And
>> that's awesome. Like, I'm so excited
about that buildout. I'm so excited
about what it's going to do for the
economy. But the question is like if
that does not translate into a rapid
acceleration in profits right away,
could investors get spooked? Could there
be a massive selloff? Could that cause a
lot of problems economically? Well, I
think that's a plausible scenario and
one that policy makers should keep in
the back of their minds even as we are
excited about the potential of AI, even
as we are excited about the economic
opportunities of this massive wave of
investment. Well, that's sort of what I
want to go into is a little bit about
the scenarios here. So, you mentioned
that this one might be uh a different
than some of the other tech bubbles of
the past. Um, it sounds like AI could be
the best thing since sliced bread when
you compared it to some of these other
major technologies. Um, but what is the
best case scenario here? And then on the
flip side, um, you sort of hinted at
what the worst case scenario might be,
but play that out a little bit for me.
>> Yeah. Um, so I think uh the best case
scenario comes from a quote that uh the
CEO of Google DeepMind said, Demis
Hosabibus. He said, quote, "It'll be 10
times bigger and maybe 10 times faster
than the industrial revolution."
That would be awesome. Um, I mean the
industrial revolution really is this
turning point in human history where the
pace of economic growth of planet earth
changes like over what it had been for
the preceding 10,000 years. And there's
this turning point in human history
after the industrial revolution when
productivity starts going up much
faster, growth starts going much faster,
the quality of life starts getting much
better. Demis is saying maybe it'll be
10 times faster than the industrial
revolution which really took like 50 to
100 years to diffuse across um the
British economy not to mention right the
world economy where it took even longer.
So if this is 10 times bigger and moves
10 times faster, that's the biggest
economic boom of all time. That's like,
you know, one of the biggest
productivity enhancers of all time. And
that should lead to companies reaping
massive savings on their investments of
AI, rapid GDP growth, rapid productivity
growth. And you know we address whatever
the bottlenecks are in AI adoption
whether that's permitting for data
centers or challenges that companies
face in integrating AI with their
existing business models and processes.
You know for the best case scenario all
of those bottlenecks get addressed in a
time relevant fashion and we're able to
reap the potential of AI. I mean if you
think about the internet um the the the
impact of the internet happened after
the technology was ready right um and
that's because we didn't have broadband
you know to every household we didn't
have consumers comfortable with the idea
of spending money online I mean I'm not
that old and even I remember when people
were like what give my credit card out
to a random website online no way right
so there's a lot of things that will
have to change as we get ready for this
AIdriven economy in the same way uh that
things had to change for us to get ready
to live through the internet economy.
And so what I'm what I'm trying to
express here and I'm I'm being
repetitive intentionally is there are
bubbles that are a nonsensical hoax,
right? very famously um hundreds of
years ago in the Netherlands there was a
bubble around tulip prices where people
just kept buying tulips because they
could sell them for more than they
bought them for. And that just seemed
like that would go on forever. So keep
buying and keep selling and keep making
a profit. But obviously tulips like
you're not going to base the economy on
tulips. You can't build anything with
them. This was all just like the Pokemon
card, you know, not intrinsic value kind
of thing. So my point is some bubbles
can be because of like nonsensical hoax
situation. Some bubbles can be like the
internet absolutely legitimate massive
economic opportunity and transformative
technology. I would say that AI is
definitely in the worst case in that
second category where it's still a
transformative technology but the
valuations are crazy and we still have
some financial disruption uh based on
that. Okay. So um we talked about the
the best case. I just talked a little
bit about the the worst case, but let me
elaborate for a moment on the worst
case. I think one question is like how
long do these AI breakthroughs take to
mature to the economy in a way
disruptive? I mean like we know that
people are using AI to an astonishing
amount. Um OpenAI disclosed recently
that they're up to 700 million weekly
average users. So that's like most
people in America who have a job
presumably are interacting with uh AI
platforms and chat GPT specifically um
at this stage. The question is like how
far are they from their current use case
um to generating meaningful increases in
their economic productivity? like if
they're using chat GBT for
entertainment,
um that's not necessarily bad for the
economy, but it's not the same kind of,
you know, massive uh opportunity if
they're using it to enhance like their
overall economic productivity. Um, which
is what we need for this to go through.
So, one is like the the productivity
benefits are farther away than we think.
I mean we already know about some fields
where productivity get growth is really
significant like coding is the obvious
one where coders say you know their
productivity is amazing big tech
companies say they're slowering they're
slowing the hiring of engineers because
the productivity growth is so good that
they can reduce their hiring
requirements. Um the other thing is that
like some of these projects companies
are you know raising enormous amounts of
money and if they're not able to pay
their investors back uh pretty quickly
that's going to raise questions about
the next trunch of money that they need.
Um nobody has told me about firms like
OpenAI and ChatgBT sorry OpenAI and
Anthropic and others. Um
>> they're definitely seeing rapid revenue
growth. But that's not the same as being
cash flow positive from operations.
They're still having to bring on more
and more investment to fuel that growth.
And you know the sort of question is
Chat GPT gives away GPT5 access for
free. So like what percentage of their
operational costs and here I'm not even
talking about you know the building out
of massive infrastructure that is
underway but just operating the
infrastructure they have. you know, how
far away are they from uh cash flow
positive from operations? Those are the
kinds of questions that investors kind
of are not asking today because they're
just so excited about the AI boom that
they're willing to pay any price. Um,
but in the future, you could certainly
imagine they are. And I think if you
look at some of the companies which have
zero revenue, right, Chad GBT has a lot
of revenue, Anthropic has a lot of
revenue, Google has a lot of revenue.
There are other companies um some of
them founded by alumni from OpenAI and
others that are attracting sky-high
valuations in the tens of billions of
dollars and doing that with no revenue.
Um and that doesn't mean inherently
automatically uh that we're in a bubble,
but it definitely is one of the things
that would happen if we were in a
bubble. And so it's something to pay
attention to.
>> So obviously underlying all of this is
an assumption that adoption needs to
take place. Let's go back to the
government and talk about government
adoption of AI. So on August 5th, the US
General Services Administration GSA
added Open AI, Anthropic and Google as
approved AI vendors. This news is the
latest development in a string of
government efforts to encourage
government adoption of AI. I want to
know what this GSA appro approval means
for agency's access to AI.
>> Yeah. So, folks out there who are not
familiar with the General Services
Administration, um I forgive you. It's
not exactly a household name, but it's
actually a pretty um important
organization. And the reason here is
like there's a million billion
regulations on what it means to sign a
contract with the United States
government. And that is a lot of
complexity, not just for companies to
navigate, but for the government to
navigate. And so, you know, just
negotiating contracts on behalf of the
government can take months and months
and months. The General Services
Administration, I mean, they have a lot
of jobs. They have a they have a big
real estate portfolio that they manage
on behalf of the government. They have a
lot of other important jobs to do, but
one of the things that they do is manage
big contracts that the entire government
has access to. So, it's not like a DoD
contract where the DoD can use it or a
Department of Energy contract where the
Department of Energy can use it. when
the GSA signs a contract, it's open and
available to most or all of the federal
government. And so if you're thinking
about like how do we accelerate AI
adoption, the fact that there are now
what we would call in in government
speak contract vehicles for purchasing
AI services through the GSA, that means
that the complexity to navigate for any
government agency, for any government
office, for any government individual to
get access to AI capabilities um just
went way way down. And when you think
about like some of the hurdles that make
all of this more complex like security
concerns
uh like cyber security concerns like
access to cloud services and the
conditions under which that is or is not
allowed. Again the GSA has sort of
navigated a lot of that complexity on
behalf of the entire federal government.
And so this is this is not a guarantee
but this is certainly a big window for
accelerating AI adoption um across the
entire federal government. And you're
seeing, you know, interesting uh
maneuvers by companies in this regard.
CEO Sam Alman, for example, said that he
was going to offer chat GBT services to
the entire federal government at a price
of $1 per employee. Now, like what their
usage thresholds look like, I don't
know. There's some unanswered questions
at this stage. Um but that's really
interesting. Um and it it means that for
every government agency, you know, the
the cost of trying it out um is pretty
low, right? to just like interacting
with the chatbot, playing around with
it. Now, there's so many things that
they have to think about like number
one, how do you make sure that data
that's supposed to be kept secure is
kept secure, right? Like for example, um
when you're in the government and you're
doing anything with personnel and human
resources, uh you're interacting with a
lot of social security numbers. In the
government, you're not allowed to email
social security numbers around unless
those emails are encrypted, for example.
So you don't necess and and there's a
lot of like sensitive personal
information, medical information, etc.
You don't want to just casually upload
those up to um AI chat bots or you know
sensitive uh information about
government operations, whether or not
it's like an individual privacy concern.
Um you want to make sure that when
you're using these platforms, the data
is going to remain protected in the way
that the law demands it be protect
protected and also in the way that
common sense, you know, demands that it
needs to be protected. So those are the
kinds of questions that you know
operational adoption uh is going to have
to wrestle with. But it does seem to me
that you know the foot is being put on
the accelerator and I think um that's
just an exciting opportunity for for the
United States. I'm excited to see how it
goes.
>> Yeah. Connecting it back to the the last
segment. I mean it'll be just
interesting to see if that also drives
higher numbers of productivity. Um you
know even just having access in an
integrated way. I assume there's a lot
that they have to do to prepare for this
beyond just the security concerns
actually being mindful about you know
what does it mean to use AI in in the
government. Have you heard of any uh
steps that they're taking to approach
this sort of largecale adoption?
>> Yeah and I think here there's there's a
good analogy um to be made with the
digitalization of government affairs. Um
you know when I was in the government we
had this thing called uh the defense
travel service which was basically just
like um Expedia or Kayak or Google
flights you know for b purchasing
flights um when you are a government
employee and purchasing it with a
government you know uh payment account.
Well, the Defense Travel Service was
based on old regulations that had been
written, you know, for what it meant to
uh buy air travel. And one of the things
in the government is because they don't
want, you know, wasteful spending of
taxpayer money is that your supervisor
has to approve the uh purchase of the
flight. So, there needs to be some kind
of mechanism to route the flight uh
ticket uh attempt to purchase to your
supervisor for approval. And I guess
like when the regulations were written,
it said like your supervisor has to
stamp it approved. And so when you go to
the Defense Travel Service as a
supervisor, as I was, there's a button
that says stamp approved.
>> So literally stamp it.
>> Yes. You have to click stamp because
they wanted to abide by that old timey
regulation. And so my point here is that
like just because you're moving from
paper and ink and stamps to
digitalization
did not inherently mean you got this big
productivity boost. If you just took the
same process that you used when it was
paper and ink and you use that same
process but in a digital format, you
might get no productivity improvement.
You might get a tiny fraction of the
potential productivity improvement. The
big productivity improvements from
digitalization came from process
re-engineering where you're like, "Okay,
because this exists, we can do this an
entirely different way. We don't need a
massive mail room in the basement with a
bunch of people who walk around with
shopping carts delivering mail. We don't
need, you know, all of these approaches
that we take because we're running the
world on p paper and ink. We can
re-engineer our processes to take
advantage of digital reality. And the
same is going to be true for AI. I think
that while I'm excited to give a lot of
people in government, you know, access
to chatbot capabilities and and use that
to enhance their work, I think the
obvious truth is that the vast majority
of the productivity improvements are
really only going to kick in when you
think about the process re-engineering
part of the story. um like what are we
going to do differently than we would
did in the pre-AI era and how are we
going to make sure that we actually
generate the productivity improvements,
generate the cost savings, etc. Um
that's not just a take your old process
and throw AI on top of it. You really
have to re-engineer the process and
that's a complicated thing to
accomplish. A lot of organizations
struggle with that and the government
historically has struggled with that
massively because government employees
often love to brag. Like if you go look
at the um online biography of just about
any general in the United States
military, it will say they are in charge
of you know so many tens of thousands of
people and budget of X. Right? They brag
about how much they're responsible for.
They don't brag about how much cost they
cut. They don't brag about how
efficient, you know, operations became
under them. And that's just because
bureaucracies often incentivize little
empire building. They don't incentiv
incentive always inherently um
incentivize efficiency. And so that can
be a challenge when you're trying to
seize the opportunities of
transformative technologies, which I do
think AI is.
>> Well, I'm really excited to to see what
numbers come out um after all this is
sort of up and running. I'm sure we will
analyze it here when it does. Um, I
think that does it for this week's
episode of the AI Policy Podcast. Greg,
thank you so much for joining me. To our
listeners, thank you so much for tuning
back in. Great conversation as always
and we'll see you next time.
>> Thanks, Belle.
>> Thanks for listening to this episode of
the AI Policy Podcast. If you like what
you heard, there's an easy way for you
to help us. Please give us a five-star
review on your favorite podcast platform
and subscribe and tell your friends. It
really helps when you spread the word.
This podcast was produced by Sarah
Baker, Satie McCulla, and Matt Mand. See
you next time.
[Music]
