[music]
[music]
Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech, the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice here. It's always
Rosie. And as I've said many many many
times um this is just a group of
students and more young professionals
than usual [snorts] who are very very
interested in anything that has to do
with technology and yes it's regulation.
So today I'm joined by my friend and
colleague Jack Mo. Hi Jack, great to see
you again.
>> Hi Rosie, great to see you.
>> I'm actually very happy to see you here
because we are interviewing someone I
actually met in person which doesn't
happen very often on this podcast. Um,
hello Barry. Great to see you.
>> Hi. Hi. Hi, Rosie. Nice to meet you
online.
>> It's It's great to see you again. Um, I
was saying that we met in person because
we actually um met at a um conference at
a lecture that you gave on a project
that I participated in organized by the
uh consumer empowerment project um C and
that was really interesting. We met in
your uh city Dublin. Um I am now back in
Li as you can see from the background.
I'm in my office. Anyways, let's start
with telling our listeners why you're
here. What have you been doing so far?
Why did you decide this um kind of life
path if one can call it that way? And
where do you see yourself heading in the
future?
Um well, first of all, thanks so much um
for the invite um to the podcast and uh
it's really really interesting insights
and guests that you've had on in the
past. Um so look just in terms of me um
I'm a partner in the technology law
group of the major Irish law firm
William Fry where I've been for about
three and a half years and my practice
is almost entirely focused on artificial
intelligence um all aspects of AI law so
intellectual property data protection
commercial contracts
and of course um e- regulations
um but it's interesting in that it's
also kind of spreading to things like
consultancy and framework implementation
and strategy and um red teaming
adversarial testing methodologies and
things like that like it's really
becoming quite expansive. So, um
um an awful lot of fun. Um for anybody
interested in in AI and law, um I have a
PhD in in AI and copyright and um I
guess uh yeah, I'm on the Irish
government's artificial intelligence
advisory council. So, I was appointed by
the Irish government to that body and
I'm also a member of the Law Society of
Ireland. That's the um the the the law
lawyers professional body in Ireland. Um
their intellectual property and data
protection committee. Um so in terms of
how I got here, um I didn't choose it. I
don't think one could say I chose it,
but it was just um um you know uh
fate maybe or or or just an imperative
somehow. But um before before the
podcast um Rosie said not to go back to
my childhood, but I I'll go back to a
middle ground um to 2009. I was coming
walking back from um a rugby game that
Ireland had played in Dublin with one of
my best friends and um
he's now very senior in in one of the
the the big consultancy firms and you
know he was saying oh gosh if you ever
get into get the opportunity to get into
AI like it's going to be huge in the
future. I mean, and I was very
interested in AI as it was and we had a
big long conversation on the walk, I was
going to say back home on the walk back
to the pub um after the match um about
this and we can talking about it for the
night. But anyway, in around 2016,
I joined the Irish Music Rights
Organization, which is the Irish CMO
collective management organization
responsible for collecting music
royalties and representing creatives and
so on, music industry. and I became um
director of legal affairs and regulatory
compliance for IMRO. And through that I
was on the legal committee of a body
called GSAC. And GSAC is the
representative body in Europe for
collective management organizations like
Emer
from Germany and so on
in in um in Belgium I think. And so
basically
there was an awful lot of lobbying going
on around the copyright directive um
when I was involved and to this day
actually the copyright directive holds
the record in the EU for the most amount
of money spent in lobbying and the whole
idea the big focus in the copyright
directive was about getting platforms it
was article 13 then became article 17
but getting platforms to obtain licenses
um for you music and so on. Um being on
being on the uh the platforms
and everyone was focused on that. But
there was this one little sneaky little
article that nobody nobody was paying
any attention to and it it was to do
with this thing called text and data
mining and it said that oh you can carry
out text and data mining no problem. You
can you can forget copyright text and
data mining unless there's these opt
outs. And I said, "You know what, guys?
I think this could relate to this whole
AI thing." And you see, at the time, and
it's like a confluence of events
happening. Um, Sony Flow Machines had
just come out with the song Daddy's Car,
which was one of the first AI pieces of
music, or at least one well known, and
it was trained on 40 Beatles songs. and
um you know it doesn't sound great and
it only prepared what was called the
lead sheet. You needed a human co
composer to actually put it together and
everything but you know it was the first
time that we'd seen oi can generate
music. I say it was the first time in
1843
bit further back to my childhood in 1843
Lady Love Lace actually wrote that
someday computers could be used to write
music because she said look it's just
maths at the end of the day it's just
mathematical frequency. So that that's
always really struck a chord with me. Um
but basically
the um this also was coinciding with the
next Rembrandt thing. So we it wasn't
generative AI as we know it but it was
signs that you know what it might be
possible to train AI on create things.
But just to show you how different the
world was back then. The first time I
spoke about AI at a conference, it was a
Latin American music industry conference
and in the Q&A at the end I was asked
what should we do to um you know tell
our kids to do at college so they're not
replaced by AI in the future. Now in
2016 this was the correct answer. But my
answer was oh anything creative because
the one thing AI will never really be
able to replicate is human creativity.
And look, it turned out then six years
later that the first thing AI became
really good at was replicating human
creativity. So that's the danger of
predictions. So um I you know went on in
the music industry on the AI crusade and
I be I was appointed to the global
policy committee of SEESAC
which is the international body
overseeing music rights and royalties
and all this. was chair of their AI and
um copyright uh working group and you
know I got to do really cool things. I
got to speak to a WIPO assembly um on
the issue and this was just when these
were forming as issues and people didn't
even know it was an issue and it was
kind of publicizing you know it was like
the crazy scientists at the start of a
Roland Demick film like where you're
saying the nutrinos are mutating like as
you're you're identifying the issue and
trying to tell people and in fairness
the music industry really listened I
think uh because of the impact of
peer-to-peer sharing
um 20 years before and um then in 2020
um I started a PhD in it and uh the
opportunity came up with William Fry to
develop an AI practice which I jumped at
and I think now we've developed
now I might be biased but I really think
we've got one of the the the strongest
um AI practices in Europe so I'm really
delighted to be part of that team
>> diving deeper into the topic of the
impact of European copyright law on
technological innovation. Usually
European copyright law has been called
both as a model for balanced governance
and a barrier to innovation when it
comes to AI. Which characterization is
closest to reality for you and why?
I mean, copyright is clearly a barrier
to AI innovation. Like, but you know,
it's just a question of whether or not
you think that's a good thing or a bad
thing. Like, obviously, if you have to
pay for all of the training data you
need, that's obviously a barrier. Like,
there's there's just no getting around
it. Well, there is getting around it.
you could just remove copyright and and
give two fingers to the the the rights
holders and and say tough luck
everybody. Um you're you're not you're
not getting paid for for your work. Um
and you know that's the question that
we're battling with. And if you look at
the the
wider geopolitical context,
um when Donald Trump just a few weeks
ago from the date of this recording was
launching the um United States AI action
plan, he spoken the copyright issue and
he said it's not possible, and I'm
quoting him or at least paraphrasing
him. He said, "It's not possible to have
a successful AI program and have
copyright licensing." And he said, "If
China aren't doing it, why should we do
it?" And, you know, I think that's
really indicative of of the you know,
the global um direction of things like
in terms of whether or not copyright is
seen as as um an impediment. I mean when
the head of the US copyright office put
out a report saying actually you know
lock guys sometimes you might need a
license for this copyright material and
she was fired 3 days later you know so
anything seen as impeding AI development
in the US is seen as a national security
issue so yes copyright absolutely does
slow like it's it's an obstacle for AI
development because you have to pay for
it if you're going to you know subject
to the exceptions in Europe from text
and data mining which I'm sure we'll get
into but obviously it will be much
easier and cheaper and less riskier to
develop AI in Europe if you didn't have
any copyright
but then you don't have any copyright so
in in terms of the balance approach
the text and data mining exception in
Europe in the 2019 copyright directive
was an attempt at this balance
But that wasn't designed
for generative AI. I mean, you know,
when we were lobbying and working on the
early drafts of the copyright directive
when article 4 was first created, the
technology that underpins current AI
systems, the transformer, the T that we
keep hearing about in GPT, that was
first written about in a research paper
in 2017 called detention is all you
need. the the technology not only had
not been invented, it hadn't been
written about yet, you know. So
like almost as soon as it came out, the
text and data mining exception, it was
out of date because when that
legislation came in, OpenAI had already
started this massive massive throw the
entire internet and see what happens um
approach which is the scale approach of
large language models. It's based on
incredible volumes of data. So it was
already out of date. So I think it's um
I think it was an attempt to have that
balance but
we aren't achieving the desired um
results. I think and I think we really I
think our problem with copyright now is
conceptual
in nature. Like the thing is is that if
you look at the burn convention and the
the like the WIPO convention and you
know photographs and everything if you
look at the technological innovations
that have come along copyright has
always had to make tweaks and adapt to
it. I mean I you know the the printing
press leading to the statute of an um
you know the introduction of the
photogram making changes um the
introduction of the internet um making
changes the cassette tapes and the
private coping exception things like
this um but I think AI as a technology
is so alien to what has come before I
have started to think that copyright law
isn't actually able to deal with it
properly. I used to think that copyright
law was able to deal with it, but now
I'm starting to think I just don't see
how they can both coexist. Um because,
you know, at least with the phonogram,
it wasn't so alien because there was
still, okay, if you can hear music, you
could write music and and read it out or
sing it out. You know, it was possible
to record music. the medium was slightly
different. So in a way it was a change
of medium
in terms of previous technological
progressions. But AI is different
because AI creates and it learns. And
I'm sure we'll talk about the Getty
Images case and other cases, but it's
just
our existing paradigms
don't fit to um this technology. And I
think that it's just going to get
trickier and trickier as we go on.
>> It's really interesting how you just
went like with a straight on no. It's
it's like it's a form of hindrance or
it's a it's a barrier because [snorts]
I think like when you think of copyright
law and AI, you automatically kind of
like go towards the direction of um use
of data for training purposes, which is
like what's on the news. uh especially
today by the way. [snorts] Um but I
guess that um it would be interesting
also to see whether for example AI can
be helped by copyright law if you then
use copyright law to protect works of
art made by AI. I'm just saying it's
it's also um copyright law also could
interest the output of AI not just what
gets into it so that it can generate
something. Just saying. Um that
that's an interesting point Rosie like
that you may speak like I was making my
point first of all as a as an objective
like is it an impediment to AI
development? Like the answer is yes.
Does that mean we shouldn't have
copyright? Absolutely not. But in terms
of does it impede AI development?
Absolutely it does. in terms of what
you're saying in protecting AI outputs.
The interesting thing is that most
European jurisdictions, you know, we
come from like the the European dwat
alter um unlike the utilitarian approach
in the United States, but that's the
dwata is our copyright tradition in
Europe. Ireland is different because
we're like, you know, have that
Anglo-American influence.
But if you look at France, um if you
look at Italy, you know, European member
state laws,
copyright only protects works of the
human mind. Now, Ireland within the EU
is an outlier in that we've got this
weird provision from decades ago about
computerenerated works being protected,
but it wasn't ever obviously designed
for AI. But the thing is is that like
okay and actually as a member of the
advisory council I was chair of the AI
and the impact in the creative sector
working group and I chaired the group um
and and wrote the paper on this
recommending to the Irish government
that we actually remove that provision
of computerenerated works being
protected to bring Ireland more in line
with European law that AI generated
works are not protected in most
countries and in in the US they've been
extremely explicit. There's been many
decisions by the US copyright office.
There's been um an update to the
compendium and guideline and AI
generated works and even court cases
with Dr. Steven Ted's work all saying
that AI generated works are not
protected by copyright. So on the other
side in the output side AI generated
works are not protected by copyright in
vast majority of jurisdictions
and it's also worth considering then in
a world where
most code is now being written by AI
and
copyright is the main mechanism we have
of protecting software and code. What
does this mean for companies using AI to
produce gold? If it's not protected by
copyright, how do you protect your IP?
How do you transfer your IP in a in a in
a major transaction if you're selling
your assets to your company if there's
no copyright in it? So, you know, just
to that point, um it's a big mess and
and nobody knows what the answers are at
the moment.
Um, nobody knows what the answers are,
but I recall from last time I've heard
you speaking that there are countries
that are a bit closer to at least
envisaging a solution, not just going,
"No, we don't like you." Um, what's your
perspective on that? What's the
trajectory that you're seeing and where
should potentially Europe kind of like
head to your words rather than just
blocking everything out?
Well, you know, the US has taken this
approach of fair use and fair use is a
copyright doctrine where if you're use
of the copyright material is so
transformative, and I'm simplifying it,
but if it's so transformative,
then it's not considered copyright
infringement.
So an example would be the Google books
case where um Google was sued by the
author's guilds in the US because Google
was digitizing all of the books but you
know it was being it was digitizing them
so you'd be able to search for them. was
basically indexing them and it wasn't
necessarily for reading it was for
indexing purposes and like that was
considered a transformative use and in
the same way you had the BS and
anthropic decision in the northern
district to California recently and also
the um there was a meta decision um in
in the same district in California as
well where we very much look like we're
going down the fair use route in the US
um where the use of copyright materials
and training is so transformative that
it's considered um
um fair use. Now contrast that
and um Rosie, you have a fantastic post
on it in LinkedIn um that drew my
attention to it. So thank you. Um you
know we have a decision in Europe. Now
granted it is from the the regional
court in Munich. It's not, you know,
high yet, but Gamer sued OpenAI Ireland
um for copyright infringement. So,
basically the idea was that um Chat GPT
was rep they sued other companies as
well, but the idea was that Chat GPT was
um um reproducing GA lyrics. So gamer is
the Irish the German version of
Emeralds, the German um
rights organization and they have the
rights and the lyrics of their members
and the thing is is that
opening chat GPT was reproducing the
lyrics. Now typically you need a license
for that and game actually just this
morning it was announced game won their
case against open AI. Now, OpenAI have
said that they're going to appeal it.
Basically, what this means in Europe,
you know, and like, you know, we haven't
seen the judgment yet, so we're going on
news reports,
but it seems that you need a license if
you want to, and this is apparently what
the court said, but again, I'm basing it
on on on,
you know, news reporting. I haven't read
the judgment yet myself, but that you
need a license if you want to train. um
uh copyright materials. So in the US
you've got the you know party time
everybody look it's it's it's open
season and copy what you want and in
Europe we're going down this route where
no you need a license this is this is
you're making reproductions of the work
it's not subject to the text and data
mining exception opted out of the text
and data mining exception and just to
briefly explain the text data mining
exception basically there's a law in
European law that says that If you want
to do web scraping, and I'm simplifying,
if you want to do web scraping um for
the purposes of, for example, AI
training, you're allowed to do it
without infringing copyright unless the
person who owns the copyright says no,
no, no, you can't do that. So unless
they opt out, but another way that this
is a big mess in Europe and there's talk
about there being a central registry of
opt outs, but I could speak for hours on
why the text and data mining idea is a
failure and a bad idea and we need to
come up with a better idea. But um yeah,
we're really seeing divergences now. And
of course then we have to talk about
China because China is a major
international player in the world of AI
and the Beijing internet court has made
the decision that
well actually
in terms of outputs so unlike Europe
unlike the US if you show enough
creativity in your prompts and enough
human input into your prompts and put
enough work in the will actually then
the output might be protectable by
copyright. So, you know, we're we're
very much seeing regulatory divergences
and then a text and data mining
exceptions.
The UK is is having an awful time of it.
Um
um because
they actually introduced the first text
and data mining exception for research.
That was great. Well done them. But then
they did something I think was rather
silly and they left the EU and they um
and they did not implement the 2019
copyright directive. So now the UK has
no commercial text and data mining
exceptions. So commercial text and data
mining is actually banned currently in
the UK. You're not allowed to do it at
all. There's no exceptions to it. So the
Tory government tried to bring it in and
there was massive backlash. So they did
a complete U-turn and went back to
square one. And now the the new labor
governments have a current copyright
consultation out on AI and they're
trying to bring it in again or at least
are suggesting that talk about but um
the creative industry response to it in
particular has been very very strong and
there's a massive campaign against it.
It's being um the the kind of figurehead
for that campaign is Bjorna.
So, you know, they're really up against
it. Um, and then in Australia, just last
week, um, Australia said, um, they're
they're not allowing, um, they're just
not allowing text and data mining. Um,
you know, they're not providing for text
and data mining exceptions. So, then
we've got the likes of Japan where
you've got more permissive regimes where
text and data mining is permitted
provided it doesn't affect the rights of
the right holder. South Korea has a
permissive regime and um Singapore has a
very expensively permissive regime. So
lots of different
approaches around the world and this is
just to make matters more complex.
The EU has this little article in it
called at the AI act called article 53
which says that you have to have a
copyright policy in place but the
recycle that's attached to article 53
recycle 106 says oh and by the way this
applies no matter where in the world
you're training your AI. So the idea is
that if you're training your
compliance
copyright rules and text and data mining
and everything, you legally lawfully
train an AI in Singapore and then you
bring your AI and want to put it into
the European market. Well, the AI act
says no, no, no, you can't. If you want
to put it in the European market, it has
to have been trained in compliance with
EU copyright law, not in compliance with
Singapore copyright law. So the idea is
is that the example I always use and and
it does strike me that that um Rosie sat
through an hourong lecture from me on
this and will have heard all of my bad
jokes and examples. Um I have a very
limited repertoire. Um but basically the
idea is that um you know if you had a
company in Boston making baby formula
and the whole ridiculous baby formula
company is that they have bright neon
pink baby formula and the Europe says
we're not really mad about bright pink
baby formula so no you just have to make
it differently and you know comply with
European baby formula rules.
This isn't Europe being extr territorial
or imposing EU laws on the US. It's just
saying if you want to put your product
on our market, if you want to play in
our market, you play by our rules. So,
so that's where we are. But what does
that mean then for AI development where
in the US it seems like it's totally
permissive in in in many
like you know Asian countries it seems
quite permissive.
I don't know like are we going to have a
twotrack AI world and in terms of the
code of practice that many of the AI
companies signed up to under the AI act
they're all saying oh we will 100%
comply with copyright with EU copyright
law well not 100% I have to be careful
because I'm a lawyer we will comply with
European copyright law and I don't know
how that's going to work because I like
unless you license everything are you
really going to be in full compliance
with EU copyright law I don't know so
yeah interesting Thanks.
>> What about if the if the GMA case gets
appealed, will a German court decides
decide of text and data mining?
>> Yeah, I I guess like and
I I did German and I did law and German
in my first year in university, so I
really should have a better recollection
of the the German federal court system.
Um I remember that's Bundes Cassette's
book. Um but um that's about it. Um but
basically, yeah, I presume it'll be
appealed up through Germany and we might
get a referral to the CJ EU.
Interestingly, there already is a text
and data mining type referral in
existence to the CJU from I always get
mixed up. Is it I think it's Hungary. I
always get mixed up between is it from
Bulgaria or Hungary. I think it's
Hungary. Um, like
>> I think it's Hungary, too. Yeah, either
Hungary or Czech Republic, but I think
it's Hungary.
>> No, it's not Czech Republic. So, yeah,
>> let's go Hungary. Um, but like company
versus Google Ireland.
And
basic like like company is um
it it's a newspaper type company and
they're suing Google for the the the AI
summaries basically and the idea is it's
the similar idea around the text and
data mining exception but I think the
gaming case if that's referred to CJ
would be closer but even the gamma case
may not be the most ideal. wait and see
type case you know in terms of it's got
a very esoteric set of facts and game
compared to most European juris most
European organizations were extremely
proactive I would say in text and data
mining they took it very seriously from
the get-go um you know and and in terms
of reserving their rights and everything
so you know we're still very early days
and it remains to be seen but um I would
expect it to be appeal for sure.
>> Yeah, the appeal is almost certain and I
do expect it as well to get to the
highest court to be honest and I do
think that it will get a referral if it
doesn't get a referral before the
highest court. Of course, we know how
the European system works. So, we'll
see. We'll see. We'll wait. Um it was
exciting to see something coming out of
Munich uh today because I um technically
established Munich. So, um, what did I
want to say? Oh, yeah. Let me play
devil's advocate. That's something I
tend to do on this podcast. Um, do we
really need all of that data to train
generative AI? Is it so important that
we have generative AI, especially when
we think about commercial use? I mean,
medical use is not exactly the same. We
know that. That's not research. Like, do
I really need all of that data to
have a book written in Shakespeare style
about what I ate this morning?
>> Do you really need your smartphone?
Do you really need a fax machine? Do you
really need a typewriter? Do you really
need a telegraph? you know, um, like
it's possible to do like all of the work
of a law firm without this technology.
My law firm is 177 years old and, um,
they didn't have generative AI or maybe
electricity, you know, when it started.
Um,
but,
you know, do we need generative AI? I
think generative AI is is the first
phase in changing the world like and you
know in terms of the transformer and
large language models short answer is
yes you do need like it work on scale
the more data you throw at it the better
it gets and we're already we have run
out of publicly available data so now
that's why we're seeing licensing deals
popping up left right and center where
nonpublicly available data is being sold
after and AI companies are trying to
make their synthetic data better. So the
issue is the reason you you actually
can't use
um you can't use
synthetic data in relation to um
training because it's like if you make a
copy of a copy of a copy you ultimately
lead to what's called model collapse
because if you're using AI training to
teach AI and teach it eventually
collapses now they're getting better
being able to use synthetic data. So,
first of all, we need all the data.
Second of all, do we need generative AI?
Well, that's a very philosophical
question. Um, but I think we are on the
road to something more than, you know,
um,
you know, compose me uh, a Jay-Z song in
the st like or you know, um, do Hamlet
in the style of Jay-Z, which is actually
on YouTube. It's it's very good. Um, but
the idea is is that no, we don't we
don't need need it, but like we're very
much in a transitional phase. And this
is something I've um been trying to
get across is that I really see us being
in a transitional phase in terms of
technology and society. Like Chachi PT,
it we're recording on the 11th of
November.
um chatpt
isn't three years old yet and it's the
the starting point of the technology.
You know, you have to bear in mind that
there are citysized, and I mean this
literally,
city-sized data centers coming online,
which will use the electricity, just one
city-sized data center of several
nuclear reactors and these are coming
online in 2027, 2028.
What are they going to produce? What's
coming next? So, we're in that
transitionary phase where we've started
implementing AI, but the AI we have now.
That's not the AI that's changing the
world. This is a handy tool that can do
funny things, but it's not the AI that
changes the world. It's the AI that if
you do it really well, will save each
employee two or three hours a week,
maybe four hours a week, and that's a
win. But over the course of a year, that
really adds up. But what we're actually
working towards is something bigger and
and it's important for organizations and
society and governments to appreciate
and understand that.
>> Thank you. Um I do feel like there is a
slight um in congruence between my
question and your answer.
I do agree with you that a lot of
workers can be saved by something like
generative TVI. However, I would also
point out that many um copyright cases
were actually kind of fueled by also
like literally individual litigation of
people finding out stuff about um
authors and and like literally copying
authoral work because they were just
doing it in like their own homes. Like
the problem with things like open AI is
not that a big company worker can
potentially use one of the texts
produced by exauthor is also that anyone
can potentially write in the style of
that author. So nobody would then read
the book of that author because they can
just have their own book created for
them. So is it commercial AI? Is it like
is commercial AI that important or is it
just that AI is important for firms and
workplaces?
>> Um so
okay um like first of all in the style
of is interesting and like the author's
guild and open AI case is kind of going
along those lines.
So, George [snorts] Martin, author of
Game of Thrones,
is the um kind of main figure nerd. And
there's there there's a YouTube I'm only
saying this because I listened last
night to it. Um, there's a YouTube
channel that does like very often speaks
about Game of Thrones, but the the chap
that does [snorts] the YouTube channel
apparently it turns out is a law student
and he actually did an analysis which I
found quite interesting. It was my two
worlds colliding of um the author's
guild claim and George RR Martin and
Game of Thrones involvement in it. So,
um
um I can I can find I can find the
channel and you can maybe if you want
also
>> Yeah, we will add the link in the show
notes. Of course,
>> it was it was it was an interesting it
was an interesting analysis. He was
actually pretty pretty pretty good
actually. He's good Game of Thrones
insights and good legal understanding.
So, um, anyway, the idea is that,
oh, I wouldn't bother reading Game of
Thrones because
opening I allegedly trained on George or
Martin's work, so I'm just going to run
my own version of Game of Thrones. And
that's obviously nonsense. Like, I mean,
I'm obviously not going to go to Game of
Thrones to get the same experiences, you
know. Now whether or not the winds of
winter comes out, I may end up having to
go to OpenAI to to finish the Game of
Thrones series. Um, that's one only
proper Game of Thrones afficionados will
appreciate and understand. But I think
the issue is that
you're not getting the same quality.
Like, you know, something I did use AI
for was I like I'm a huge science
fiction nerd and I basically
I think read all of the good science
fiction books where an asteroid hits
planet Earth and that kind of, you know,
that type of disaster science fiction.
And then I was thinking, you know, I'd
really love to if it was set in a modern
setting and set in Ireland and I'd
really like a hard sci-fi version of
what would actually happen, what would
the government's response be? And I did
use AI to generate that kind of story
for me. And it was a long form one and
it was it was cool. It was like a nolla
really. And it was cool. I really liked
it. Um, but the thing is it it wasn't,
you know, it wasn't going to be winning
any literary awards. But but you see the
point I make is I really like Michael
Kryton books. Now he didn't win the book
prize. He didn't win the Pulitzer. That
doesn't mean that mean that his books
aren't outrageously entertaining. He
wasn't a literary giant in terms of, you
know, he he doesn't have a Nobel Prize
to his name. But that doesn't make the
books any less entertaining.
And um like I think maybe with AI there
might be a dilution issue in terms of
okay the the the
market is but you know what that's
already happening. Go on Amazon and look
at the books that are out there like
that. There are so many so many
self-published AI and a lot of it's AI
slop by the way some of it isn't good
and it's AI generated covers and AI
generated content
and that is making it more difficult
maybe for for writers to break through
but we have the traditional channels of
publishers and so on for that but I
don't buy the argument that um in the
bulk author case now applied to f
photographers. If I want a stock photo
of you know two lawyers shaking hands or
a guy with his hands and I said you know
the usual types of stock photos you
might associate with a newspaper
magazine story. Traditionally I would
have got my license with you know the
likes of Getty Images and I would have
um or you know Ice whichever and I would
license a photo and use it and attribute
it paid for it.
But now I just go on to Gemini or
ChachiBT and generate the image. Happy
days.
And I don't have to pay for it. And it's
not infringing anybody's copyright. The
output allegedly.
Longer story. But the thing is is that
AI systems have been trained on the
photographers of hardworking
photographers who actually take those
stock photos. So if you're say a
photographer,
absolutely your book, your your photos
have been used to train AI systems.
Absolutely. And now they've trained
them. Now they've gotten really good and
now they're out competing you and you
know putting you out of work and taking
your work away from you after it's use
your AI to train. So in that type of
context, it's it's really applicable.
But I think less so in terms of
something like authors. But with the
stock photography thing, I would say
it's actively happening. And there was a
case in the Hamburg court which I
understand is actually being appealed
involving a German photographer and Lion
and Lion and Lion also had a big
starring role like they weren't being
sued but that they were mentioned a lot
in the evidence in the recent Getty
Images decision in in the London High
Court. Lion is the company that came up
with the um Lion 5B data set. It's one
of the biggest textto image data sets in
the world and it's used for training um
AI um image generators. And that German
photographer tried to sue Lion, but he
failed because everybody knew and agreed
that his photo was in the data set, but
Lion has a said they were a research
organization and said, "Oh, well,
because we're a research organization,
we are actually we have this exception
where we're allowed to do text and data
mining to our heart's content." So it'll
be interesting to see what the appeal is
there, but it's an active issue that is
happening in certain in certain fields.
I love how on on the one hand like um
you did say like AI is
will will change the world if it's used
by people that can use it in a way. And
then you also said that most of the
books produced by slops are really bad
kind of literature and then we are all
here spending entire cities and nuclear
reactors to create this technology.
And
I guess that by the end of this podcast,
we are very very convinced that
copyright will not potentially
um be the dam that potentially
generative AI needs or potentially
doesn't need at all. Um, but I'm
wondering if other types of legislation,
other types of um, social concerns
should become that dam, that block, that
barrier, considering, as I said, um, how
the technology exploits the environment,
for example. That should be a concern
potentially more important than
copyright, but that's far away from
human beings anyway, so maybe we don't
care that much about it.
>> [snorts]
>> Um,
that said, I'm here with the last
question because time is running out. We
did manage to quote Donald Trump twice.
So, I think this is a this is a record
on this podcast. And we also managed to
talk about Game of Thrones. No. Yeah. I
mean, nobody ever mentioned um Donald
Trump twice. And I also have to say
nobody ever mentioned it in a kind of
like decent slash kind of good um kind
of um opinion. I would say normally h
it's on the other side. So well done.
>> Let me be very clear. [laughter]
Let me be very clear. I [snorts] do not
agree with his assessment at all. There
we go. I do not agree that you cannot
not have a layout program and licensing.
Just to be crystal clear, I think that
licensing is the answer and I think that
you can't usurp the rights of rights
holders uh purely for technological
innovation. Like I mean when I opened
this I was saying that of course
copyright's an impediment to technology
to technology invation because you know
you h rights holders have rights. You
can't just take their stuff and go away
with it. if the rights holders didn't
have any rights. Happy days if you're um
developing AI. You don't have to worry
about it. So, of course, it hampers the
the technological innovation part, but
it's you needed to protect rights
holders. And Ireland has this I think
everybody every country has their own
kind of cultural history and
imperatives. But you know
the the the the notion of the writer and
the storyteller particularly in in Irish
culture is a really really ancient
concept. So, you know, point I'd like to
make is that in Irish mythology, our
version of Achilles, for example,
um um you know, our great hero Hercules
was Kukallin
and Kucullin was actually ultimately
defeated.
>> How you pronounce it?
>> What did you think it was?
>> Leave it. We don't want to know. But
anyways, great. Thank you. Thank you for
this insight, please. Yeah,
>> Ireland Irish is known for its
spellings. Not necessarily, it's not a
phonetic language, I'll put it that way.
Um but our greatest kind of hero was
defeated by a poet. you know, it was the
filler um in in Irish mythology like
ultimately he lost a battle in terms of
spears or whatever, but it was push that
that kind of doomed him and and you know
the storytellers in in Irish courts as
in the old medieval and ancient Celtic
kingly courts of old like would have
held a very high position in Irish
society and that remains to this day
where I'm from I'm from a town in the
southwest of the stol and often called
the literary capital of Ireland. And you
know, even though my local team, the
Kerry team and Gaelic football always
wins and they always win competition and
we've loads of sporting heroes, the
sports that used to come into the school
were our local writers. So Ireland has a
really strong tradition of that. So, you
know, the the focus and importance of
rights holders and and the creative
sector, those feature big um and the
Irish political and policy and cultural
landscape.
Well, before we get fired like um the
directors of the BBC for talking against
Donald Trump, um importantly, um the
last question is aside from reading Game
of Thrones potentially and seeking out
that link that we will put in our show
notes regarding the YouTube lawyer that
talks about Game of Thrones as well, is
there any other type of suggestion of
recommendations for example on books, um
podcasts, TV series, anything that can
help our listeners understand a bit
better what we talked about it.
>> Oh gosh. So yeah, like I'm a prolific
I guess um no surprise prolific user of
um uh YouTube. Um so like I I consume
I've actually just started consuming all
my content and podcasts on on YouTube.
So um
>> YouTube I just we are also on YouTube.
Well, that's where that's where I've
listened to your podcast already, um,
Rosie. So, um, it was on YouTube. Um,
but, uh, AI Explained is a really good
podcast. An excellent podcast is called
um, The Heart for, and um, that's got
the journalist from New York Times and
Platformer. It's brilliant. Like, that's
my favorite AI podcast. Um, in terms of
books,
um, there's a few. So, Supremacy,
um, is really good and that's kind of a
history of AI since 2010, dealing with
like the likes of Deis Sabis and Deep
Mind becoming Google Deep Mind and the
rise of Transformers and Open AI,
Anthropic and and all of this. Empire of
AI by Karen How is very good as well. Um
it it kind of casts a more critical eye
um on AI particularly the environmental
and social um downsides of AI in terms
of its impact on on on the global south
and data centers and things like that
and more the ethical issues. Um, it does
focus an awful lot on Sam Atlan's sister
and the issues the legally she says he's
having with his sister, which is a bit
of a distraction, I think, in that book.
Then, um, your face belongs to us by
Kashmir Hill. She's a journalist in the
New York Times um who I've had the
pleasure of chatting to about her book
actually and that's about the whole idea
of facial recognition technology and the
company clear view in particular and the
use of facial recognition technology by
law enforcement and um I've um I'm in
the middle of
umbody builds it everybody dies
the premise of which I don't agree with
actually I I don't it's a bestseller at
the moment, but I'm I'm one of the
detractors. I'm not I like I'm I'm
saying you should read it and you should
read it. You should read things you
disagree with sometimes. Um but um yeah,
I think um I think that's worth reading
as well. So those would be my my main
ones. And then like if you're a total
nerd, read the Getty Images decision as
well. Um because that is one of the best
primers I've ever read in terms of
copyright and AI and how AI models
actually function relation to copyright
and that that judgment is available
everywhere online. It's from the English
High Court and it's excellent. So I'd
really strongly recommend um reading
that and not summarizing it with AI. The
devil's in the details. Read it. do it
the oldfashioned way. Do it the hard
way.
>> Or you can also read Barry's posts which
are very useful if you're trying not to
summarize with AI. Yay. Um anyways, that
was all for this episode of Legals
Protect the podcast. Thank you so much
Jakamo and Barry for joining me today
here. It was a great pleasure and I hope
to see you both in the future.
Oh, matski.
>> [music]
[music]
[music]
