[Music]
Welcome back to the AI Policy Podcast.
I'm Gregory Allen and today we've got an
episode that I've been excited about for
literally weeks now. I've been so
excited that this is finally coming out
and I can share it with you. Uh we've
got an interview with Kyle Chan who
we've talked about before on this
podcast after his uh really really cool
op-ed that was published in the New York
Times. Um Kyle is a super interesting
guy. He's a post-dctoral research at
Princeton University's sociology
department and an adjunct researcher at
the Rand Corporation where he focuses on
industrial policy and the geopolitics of
advanced technologies. He's also a 2025
fellow with the pen project on the
future of US China relationships and
writes the excellent and very popular
newsletter uh high capacity which is on
Substack. Uh Kyle's work has been
featured in Wired, MIT Technology
Review, the Financial Times and we're
going to talk about that New York Times
oped among other things. Um, the main
reason why we wanted to have Kyle on is
that he just uh was the first author on
the recently published Rand Report, Full
Stack, China's Evolving Industrial
Policy for AI, which came out on June
26th. So, Kyle Chan, thank you so much
for coming on the AI policy podcast.
>> Great to be here.
>> Cool. So, um, I want to get into, you
know, this paper and your vi your
understanding of a AI industrial policy
for China. Um, but I do want to get a
little bit of a sense of your own life
story. You heard me just talk a bit
about your bio. Um, but sociology is
kind of an interesting angle to attack
uh industrial policy from and to tackle
USChina relations from. So, how did you
get interested in China? How did you get
interested in industrial policy? How did
you find yourself uh getting a PhD in
sociology?
>> Yeah. So, um I mean so China um I have a
personal connection. My parents are from
Hong Kong. Um, and I'm part of that
generation of um, sort of uh, children
of Hong Kong immigrants in the US who
learned Mandarin rather than Cantonese
because the parents thought it was more
useful and and they were right um, in my
case. But um, but yeah, I actually began
originally studying economics at
Chicago. um very useful set of tools for
uh for looking at sort of um rigorous
statistical problems but I felt like not
such a great set of tools for
understanding um Chinese industrial
policy, Chinese infrastructure
development and the role of the Chinese
state.
Sociology offered me a way to have a
broader sort of methodological toolkit.
you know it could use everything from
statistics, corporate financial data,
government reports and then of course uh
fieldwork sort of on the ground um
interviews with government officials and
other industry experts in China and it
also let me ask some of these big
questions about you know how does this
work? How does industrial policy work in
China? What are the government
organizations involved? How does um the
structure of the bureaucracy matter? How
does all this all piece together? So
yeah, I I felt like sociology gave me
that sort of systems level perspective
that um you know, no shade on my uh
economist friends, but um was sort of
unique among the social sciences.
>> Yeah. And I think um just so I went to
uh Washington University in St. Louis.
Um and one of their, you know, leading
lights of their economics department
when I was there, uh was a guy named
Doug North who won the Nobel Prize in
economics. Um, but he did it in a paper
that honestly you could have published
in a sociology department because it was
about the institutions of the Soviet
Union and how those institutional
incentive structures uh really plagued
the the Soviet economy and and
eventually the post uh Soviet economy.
And so I do think you're you're 100%
right that like this sort of systems
level thinking and also I think you know
sociology has a really great reputation
for doing awesome fieldwork type
research um is a lovely thing to to
bring to the table on top of the the
traditional economics toolkit. Um and
I've read your quantitative you know uh
minded stuff too. So you really do have
those those chops. All right let's start
and uh you know folks who are in this
audience um uh have a diverse set of
backgrounds. Some of them are, you know,
AI juggernauts. Some of them are more
policy type folks. But let's just like
start with the the real basics here.
Like what is industrial policy? Like
explain it to me like I'm five.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So um industrial policy is
trying to use policy, state um
investment perhaps, uh state agencies,
um state programs to um shape certain
industries um and to support their
development. um broadly speaking. Um
>> yeah,
>> got it. So um in the case of China,
which obviously has had one hell of a
run over the past uh three, four decades
in terms of its changing economy, what
is the history of uh industrial policy
in China? And I, you know, I gave you a
date to start at, but feel free to start
wherever you want in the story. Yeah, I
mean I you can go back to the beginning
of the PRC um in terms of just the state
involvement, but yeah, a lot of people
would start to focus around the reform
era in the 70s and 80s where you're
shifting away from a more sort of
command economy Soviet style model to
one where um you know the government is
still playing a major role but trying to
do so through um market forces uh in in
a broader way. So you have um you know
kind of like a shaping of incentives
rather than sort of um you know top down
directives and you know through this
whole process actually a lot of the
ministries themselves they get turned
into stateowned enterprises or um sort
of seed control to uh parts of the
private sector. So there's always sort
of this mix between private and public
in China where ultimately right the
party's in charge the party state is
sort of guiding the direction of the
overall economy um trying to um support
some of the inputs into the system but
um is not doing so perhaps in the top
down way that maybe some people would
have thought uh historically.
>> Got it. And so I think we're most people
are are are familiar that the something
called the reform era exists and this
transition from a command economy to um
something that at least takes more
advantage of market style incentives and
market structures. So what's the
interplay here? Uh what's what's an easy
way to understand the relationship
between like what is the Chinese
economic policy versus what is Chinese
industrial policy? um and and how does
that you know come to the four in
industries like electronics or digital
technology over time?
>> Yeah. So um so yeah there's you know
probably broader sort of macroeconomic
policy um things guided by monetary
policy things like that but then there
is really sort of targeted industry
level um policy and there you have
actors like the national development and
reform commission the NDRC um formerly
the state planning commission actually
um or the ministry for industry uh and
information technology um and these
agencies their goal is to kind of
support industrial development for
specific big sectors. So you can take an
industry like the auto sector for
example where China has been trying to
um build up a you know worldclass auto
industry for for actually decades now.
So sort of long before EVs long before
like BYD started to dominate the
headlines um you know uh Chinese
industrial policy Chinese state agencies
were trying to experiment with different
ways of bringing in technology perhaps
through joint ventures with foreign
firms. So Volkswagen, Toyota, uh GM,
they all set up uh joint ventures. They
had to if they wanted to enter the
Chinese market and this is sort of a
crucial fact about all this. Um and you
know there was sort of mixed success
along the way um with some of these uh
approaches. So the the JV structure it
helped to bring in um capacity but it
was widely seen as a failure in terms of
building really uh worldleading
companies, worldleading Chinese auto
brands. And then you have sort of a
whole parallel effort with um electric
vehicles and uh a lot of investment both
at the sort of basic research level in
uh battery chemistry in um electric
motors um as well as sort of uh industry
support. Um and that includes everything
from protectionist measures to keep out
the uh you know then dominant Japanese
and uh South Korean battery makers to or
at least to um to make them sort of
partner with uh with Chinese firms and
ultimately give space and support for
Chinese sort of homegrown firms to take
over. Um and so that's what we're seeing
today. you know, companies like uh as I
mentioned before, BYD or XP or Neo or
Leo, some of these uh new EV companies,
they're kind of the latest generation of
this broader effort to promote uh auto
industrial policy um for for many years
now.
>> Cool. And so when I think about, you
know, communist uh governments and
economic policy, I really think about,
you know, five-year plans, right, which
Stalin made very famous, uh, Mao made,
uh, very famous, and China to this day,
right, still has a very serious uh,
five-year planning effort. Um, how does
it work for industrial policy? Is it
like the same thing where like every
industry has a 5-year plan, there's some
official blessing of like this is what
we're trying to accomplish or is it
something else?
>> To to some extent, yes. Um there are
industry level um plans, but um but
overall these plans are sort of like um
guiding documents um that they don't
necessarily again they can't kind of
like dictate directly to especially
private sector players, you know, you
need to invest here, you need to do
this. Instead, they kind of um set a
bunch of targets, a bunch of goals um
maybe suggest uh areas to focus on and
that I think perhaps more than anything
else sends a huge signal to um to the
broader sort of market system that this
is where you should bet on. This is
where the Chinese state is going to
support you if you do uh move in that
direction and um and it'll be, you know,
a smart idea to kind of uh row on the
same team. So
>> yeah, because if you if you if you see
like in the five-year economic plan,
right, like we're going to quadruple
steel output, you know, from such time
frame to such other time frame, and
you're like a private entrepreneur and
you're like, okay, well, if the
stateowned enterprises are going to try
and quadruple steel output, well then
maybe, you know, that will offer an a
great opportunity for me to, you know,
make cars because steel will be so cheap
and so widely available. or maybe that
will be a great opportunity for me to
sell like blast furnace equipment
because there's going to be so many you
know Chinese enterprises are going to be
doing this and so and I think one other
part that you didn't mention is around
uh aligning government executive
incentives right like every Chinese
bureaucrat knows like they get a report
card at the end of the year and that
report card is like did you advance the
five-year plan and and so that kind of
clarifying of um incentive structures
around those um goals kind of even
without like nailing out the specifics
of how we're always going to achieve
those targets, people really do focus on
them and they try a lot of things to try
and make it happen.
>> Absolutely. Yeah. And especially at the
local government level too where this
sends a signal to them they might
actually have their own plans that kind
of align with the broader national plans
um and those might actually get more
granular. They might get down to the
level of actually developing um
investment funds or things like that. Um
but yeah overall this sort of aligns the
broader system government private sector
all the above um towards uh towards sort
of overarching national goals.
>> Cool. So um I want to uh start not with
AI but with uh digital technology
because now we have companies like
Alibaba
um which is sort of the this is a very
loose analogy but it's like the Chinese
equivalent of Amazon. There's other
Chinese companies like Tencent which is
extremely strong in social media. Uh
there's other companies like BU which uh
does search uh in in China like Google.
And a lot of these companies sort of
grew up uh behind the great firewall and
the blocking of western alternatives
to fill those kinds of digital
technology market niches. So, can you
sort of walk me through the history of
how China goes from, you know,
completely backward in digital
technology to a point where um by 2010,
uh maybe they're not worldleading, but
they do have real tech giants that are
important players with meaningful
capabilities. I mean, just as like one
data point, right? um Andrew Ang who uh
was a very famous Stanford professor and
a really important person in the history
of artificial intelligence and neural
network research specifically you know
he went to go be's head of AI uh for a
while living in China and the fact that
like BU was in a position to credibly
recruit an Andrew Ang sort of says
something about the state of digital
technology
uh when China pivots and really starts
focusing on AI. So, walk me through like
what industrial policy was for digital
technology in China. Um, and you know,
you you decide what the starting point
is in the in the story. Um, but why it
was at least in in my view, right, in
terms if if the metric that they're
optimizing for is building strong
companies with real capabilities, that
was a success. So, how did that happen?
>> Yeah. So um I mean you can even bring
back further in time to the rise of the
telecom infrastructure um sector you
know so now we all know about the rise
of Huawei but there was a time when um
literally just building out phone lines
and then later on sort of basic internet
infrastructure was a very new thing and
China was really catching up and felt um
very very far behind and a lot of that
was actually originally built with uh
foreign uh telecom equipment makers um
and over time some of that got you know
to like domest domesticated or or
indigenized as they say where uh some of
the infrastructure got brought in house
um and through um joint ventures again.
So uh you know one of the most famous
examples was um Shanghai Bell which was
um I think one of the first JVS in the
telecom equipment uh world where that
was actually a JV with sort of a Bell
Labs descendant in uh in Europe and um
the idea was to bring in that technology
and then to eventually produce that
equipment in China and then um you had
the emergence of um the the telecom
companies themselves like China Mobile,
China Telecom and and again these
companies in the early days right um
were catching up trying to roll out
infrastructure for um cellular
technology and eventually they become
the backbone for digital infrastructure
uh later on. Um and the funny thing is
for the rise of the internet companies
um so while the infrastructure itself
might have been very sort of state
directed right uh I mentioned these chi
Chinese telos they are stateowned um the
internet companies themselves are
private and um some of them sort of
emerged against the uh against the
wishes or sort of like outside of the
the usual official framework um like the
rise of Alibaba um actually with backing
um later on from Yahoo. So um there's
sort of interesting ties back to um
Silicon Valley uh a time when there's a
lot more sort of free flow in terms of
um uh people in terms of capital in
terms of investment and then um
definitely a whole wave of what um many
people remember as sort of like the
copycat um uh industries copycat
companies in China. So, you know, you
mentioned um Alibaba's maybe um yeah,
kind of like the Amazon uh BYU was sort
of seen as the uh um as the Google um
Sohoo or um Sina like these were, you
know, seen as the equivalent of Yahoo
back in the day in some ways as web
portals. Um so, you know, these a lot of
them sprung up um kind of outside the um
the rule of um sort of official internet
policy. I mean a lot of that was was
sort of um not quite formed in the early
days. Uh and there was a lot of
skepticism and actually it reminds me a
lot now of um some of the shifting
attitudes towards AI in China. Um
>> so the government the government embrace
of these digital entrepreneurs came
later.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um and once they really
started to take off um then they were
seen as um these these equivalents these
sort of like Chinese uh digital
champions and crucially and and this is
I'm I'm really glad you brought this up.
Crucially over time all the American uh
tech companies basically you can list
sort of like all the ones that we use
that we know well um from uh Google to
um well Amazon actually was allowed to
to go in there but um uh a lot of the
other uh sort of internet companies were
were gradually sort of blocked out. um
Google's the most probably most famous
case and this did two things right this
kind of like sealed off the uh uh
Chinese netzens from um the the rest of
the internet or at least created a
filter um but it also from a market
perspective created this sort of shelter
domestic market where these um Chinese
tech companies could become major
players in their own right um there's
always like an interesting question of
what would have happened had um that
market protective barrier not not been
there um today. Yeah. So, um you know,
this kind of brings us up maybe to 2010.
I mean, there's there's a sort of a rise
and fall pattern with Chinese tech
companies, and we can get into that as
well, but um but that that's sort of
like the the early days. Okay, cool. So,
um you know, you said in uh 2010
um 2012 is often cited as like the
critical turning point date for modern
AI. So 2012 is the imageet competition
and that is when uh a team uh I want to
say uh
Andrew Ang was involved to some greater
or lesser extent although my memory is
getting a little bit foggy at this point
but the the basic point is this is a
team uh that is using uh GPUs plus
neural networks uh in the image uh net
competition which is for image
recognition.
and they just absolutely blow everybody
else out of the water. I mean, the
amount of progress that they made that
one year going from not deep neural
networks to deep neural networks was
like as much performance progress and
accuracy of image recognition as they'd
made over the previous like five or 10
years using a bunch of different
approaches. And so every tech company
kind of sees the writing on the wall
that neural networks, machine learning,
um, this is an incredible source of
untapped potential. And, uh, suddenly
you start seeing, you know, massive,
massive money going into the AI sector
by all the big tech companies. And so I
think maybe we can start the story
there. You know, when does the AI craze
uh, reach China?
And what does you know what the Chinese
private sector entities think about it?
What does the Chinese government think
about it? And when does it start
becoming a part of the industrial policy
story?
>> Yeah. So um uh in particular machine
vision uh and um and and language became
um really big focuses for Chinese
industrial policy uh as it pertains to
AI. And so you have the rise of
companies like iFly techch, sense,
sensime, megv um that were developing
focused on developing these these models
for processing images um sort of
capitalizing on some of the
breakthroughs with um you know uh sort
of American um machine vision and um you
also have sort of a a surge in research
at the you know basic level at places
like Chinua and and um and Peing
University and um It's during this time
when the Chinese state sees this as not
only a useful tool perhaps more broadly
for uh for e economic growth but
especially also for um uh surveillance
and for data collection and data
processing. Um and so Huawei is
obviously also um very much involved in
this this whole um charge into the uh
sort of machine visioning and language
um space. um you have a combination of
sort of um statebacked uh or uh you know
semi-statebacked firms jumping into this
um becoming sort of the original wave of
I I forget the terms now but I think
they're called like now they're called
like the old dragons.
>> There used to be a time when they were
the the new uh hot up and cominging uh
AI startups and now sort of you know
they're the old guard. Um says something
about how quickly the space is moving.
Yeah, I'm glad you you connected the
story to surveillance because uh 2012
also the year that Xi Jinping assumes
power uh as the uncontested leader of
China for his first term. Um and in that
regard uh he's really prioritizing
surveillance, right? he's really
prioritizing uh centralizing domestic
political control to an extent that was
you know beyond even what China as a
hard authoritarian country um had
already done and AI uh offers an awful
really attractive option for him um
because it basically says well I I often
tell the story right like um in the book
1984 George Orwell has this thing called
a telescreen which is the TV in your
house but it's also a camera that's
pointed at you And the thing is, you
never know if somebody's watching your
feed. You're never told. Uh, and that's
because the totalitarian government has
a labor shortage, right? They need
somebody who's doing something other
than watching, you know, one person per
screen. Uh, but they could be watching
you at any moment. You just never know
at what moment they're actually watching
you. And AI kind of solves that problem
because there's no labor shortage. AI is
watching every camera all of the time.
obviously very attractive to
totalitarian countries or authoritarian
countries. And what I what I've heard it
described out from um some folks who you
know have done business in China is they
said you know there was that wave of AI
startups um that came out of the
uh came after the imageet wave and
American companies and Chinese companies
both really were good at raising venture
capital. China has a at this point
already had a surprisingly sophisticated
you know venture capital uh
possibilities not least of which you
know uh drawing in American investments
but somebody told me that the difference
between Chinese startups and American
startups at this point is that both were
able to raise investment but the Chinese
companies had revenue and a lot of it
and a lot of that revenue was government
customers building out these massive
surveillance networks um not just in
places like you know Shinj Jang um but
literally all over uh China and so
Sensime um I actually you know got to uh
go tour you know Sensime's facility in
Shenzhen and they were like talking
about how many GPUs they had how many
cameras they had and it was a massive
operation and it was uh it was they were
able to ride that growth wave and at the
same time you know by like 2017 they're
publishing worldleading papers. So when
you look at like the computer vision
facial recognition benchmark or like the
speech recognition, you know, benchmark,
it's totally routine at this point to
see um sense time or iFly tech, you
know, at the top of those benchmarks.
>> Yeah, definitely. Yeah. And and Huawei
with its smart cities
cities program and this is not only
being sort of tested and rolled out
within China, but this is also um being
exported. Um so um companies like Huawei
are trying to sell this to other
countries. Um this sort of uh techno
political model if if you will of uh
kind of surveillance and control but
also sort of like making uh urban
services more efficient right that's
sort of the framing of it. So the
massive surveillance buildout, is it is
it is that like a case of unintentional
industrial policy where like what they
really wanted was the surveillance
capability, but what they ended up doing
was building this AI juggernaut. Like
when does when would you say AI becomes
like an industrial policy focus of
China?
>> Yeah, that's interesting. Yeah, because
so I I would probably peg it as as many
people do to the 2017 um plan which was
sort of a big turning point. But the
funny thing is
>> the uh I think the translation is like
the new generation AI, you know,
strategic plan or something like that.
But this is like the official Chinese
government uh AI strategy which came out
in 2017.
>> That's right. Exactly. Um and the thing
is before that AI had been part of many
different source of plans including made
in China 2025
>> and uh but it was sort of embedded in
other areas like nextgen IT or uh
telecom um technology or um especially
industrial automation um things like
that. I I would say that 2017 that that
AI plan in particular u marked a turning
point where it became um a top national
priority um for Chinese industrial
policy. Cool. So in in that strategy at
that moment um what what would you say
Chinese leaders believed about AI and
then from an industrial policy
perspective what were they trying to
accomplish? So I think this is um not
long after Alph Go. Um and uh so Alph Go
famously um is a AI program that can
beat computers uh could beat humans at
uh at Go. And this was seen as sort of a
leap over say Deep Blue um beating
humans at chess um because of the uh
difficulty uh and complexity of the
game. And um I think this shocked a lot
of um people in the tech industry in
China and a lot of the policy folks. Um
and there had been
>> AlphaGo Lee Sadal uh the match when he
defeated the the world champion was
2016. So about a year before so almost
very plausible right that it directly
led to some Chinese bureaucrat being
like you know what we need a strategy
for this stuff.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean um it was definitely
talked about a lot um in the tech
community in China at the time. Well, I
think I think there's one other part of
the story uh that that's worth
mentioning, which is um in the same way
that you know chess uh has a really
important history uh in American culture
and European culture, the game of go has
a really important uh place in Chinese
culture. So, you know, the the Gary
Kasparov IBM deep blue match back in
like 1997 was like watched live by like
a huge huge number of people. Go was
like mostly reported on like by the
computer science community, right?
Because oh this is really exciting
what's going on with AI. But I think I
think I remember reading somewhere that
like in China literally tens of millions
of people watched that match live. So
like the the degree of like cultural
significance that that go match had in
China um was like dramatically superior
to to the impact that it had um in
America where it was mostly the computer
science community that was obsessed.
>> Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, go was just a
whole different level of of significance
culturally uh within China.
>> So um okay, so sorry I I took us off
track here, but in the 2017 plan, what
do Chinese leaders believe about AI and
what are they trying to accomplish?
>> So there they set out this idea where AI
will become an industry in its own
right. um they had wanted to turn AI the
AI industry into um something like a one
trillion R&D uh R&B uh uh industry in
and of itself. But perhaps even more
importantly, they wanted AI to kind of
turbocharge the entire Chinese economy
to kind of uh diffuse into a whole range
of sectors. Healthcare, education, of
course, manufacturing, um some of the
classic hard- techch sectors um as well
as even government services. And the
idea was that AI would upgrade sort of
all of these different parts of the
economy and sort of the broader social
structure um at large. So there was a
sense that um you know maybe perhaps
different from conceptions of like the
race to AGI today um that AI would be I
don't know maybe something more like the
computer industry maybe an industry in
its own right but also something that
would just uh ramp up productivity
across the board. And it is it fair to
say that that document reveals that
Chinese policy makers and I think it was
published by the state council. So this
is a pretty important institution that's
putting it out. Um did they think AI was
something special at that time? Uh yeah.
Yeah. So um it was seen as um an area
that sort of was its own category uh
altogether. um and and and a category
that would cut across sort of China's
other efforts in industrial policy
across sectors. So in a way it was sort
of a meta layer on top of you know
China's broader sort of technoindustrial
policy.
>> Mhm. And then uh what are like the big
goals in that strategy like what are
they trying to accomplish?
>> Yeah. So the the goals are to um number
one make China a world leader in AI um
especially when it comes to um
innovation at the cutting edge. Um so to
make I think the language was something
like to make it sort of the the primary
center for AI innovation in the world.
Um that's on the one hand on the other
hand um it really emphasized sort of
diffusion applications um the
proliferation of AI across the economy.
Um and so when you when you read through
the document, a lot of it is sort of
like breaking down, you know, specific
areas, specific sectors where uh AI
might um might improve, you know,
productivity or might uh enhance um some
kind of government service or something
like that. And and you can see later on,
again, this is sort of going back to the
um sort of national plan versus local
plan. Um later on, other local
governments, they would create their own
sort of AI plans um in response. And a
lot of those would sort of mirror some
of the language um but then maybe get a
little more granular in terms of um you
know which sectors they want to focus on
uh which parts of AI uh they want to
support.
>> Cool. So now I want to um talk about
like the industrial policy toolbox,
right? They've said hey AI is special.
Um it's it's going to be you know as
important as computers maybe which it
turns out are pretty dang important.
Yes. um and we want to be innovative, we
want to be world leaders. What is like
the policy toolbox
that they reach for to try and uh
achieve these goals? Um and let's let's
start, you know, like in the time frame
of shortly after that strategy and then
we'll we'll update to present day uh
pretty soon.
>> Yeah. So, um so there's a number of
things that they that they try to do. Um
so one is um trying to build out compute
infrastructure. Um so the idea here is
um eventually this becomes sort of a a
national integrated computing network.
Um but the idea is to have the state
involved with the buildout of data
centers, build out of uh connections
between data centers um in a way that
Chinese industrial policy makers have
done in other sectors, right? this idea
that the state can play a role not just
in providing capital but in actually
building some of the sort of basic uh
underlying um uh tools. Um and sort of
within this project is the uh uh um
eastern data western computing project
um where they wanted to use um renewable
resources, renewable energy resources in
the sort of interior provinces. So think
about like um Guo or um Inner Mongolia
or um sort of far from the more
developed coastal regions um and build
data centers out there to leverage the
uh cheaper energy uh renewable energy um
perhaps uh colder climates out there to
run data centers more efficiently and
then um models could be trained or even
deployed from there to service customers
back on the more uh wealthy east coast.
post where you have sort of the demand
for compute um essentially and yeah this
was part of this uh broader vision of
almost sort of like um data centers as a
utility or uh uh compute as a utility
where you
>> when you say like building data centers
do we mean like the government is owning
and operating these data centers and and
providing them to both stateowned
enterprises and private industry or is
it stateowned enterprises are doing this
or is it private enterprises are doing
this or are they like subsidizing it or
they like just doing it. Uh what what
are they doing?
>> Yeah. So, a lot of this ends up getting
actually um rolled out at the local
level uh provincial and and municipal
governments um in partnership with
actually some of the Chinese telecom
companies like China Mobile. um also in
partnership um sometimes with uh Huawei.
Um and the idea is yeah to uh uh you
know these these are ultimately meant to
be sort of public uh public data centers
um that can be then leveraged by um you
know uh local governments to uh either
offer compute to local startups or um
sort of feed into this broader sort of
national grid of compute.
>> Mhm. Okay. So um one thing they're doing
is they're building a hell of a lot of
data centers. Uh what else are they
doing?
>> So uh on top of that um they are setting
up um what are called what we try to
call sort of statebacked AI labs. Um and
these are often again um really
initiated at the local level. So there's
a few in Beijing like um uh um BA BAI
which is um also known as Jan um uh and
there's uh there's um one in Shanzhan um
Pong Chong there's um uh Jang AI lab,
Shanghai AI lab. So a lot of these are
are started by um you know some kind of
partnership between local governments
like um the um Jang provincial
government, maybe HJO municipal
government uh and maybe even private
sector um players like Alibaba um and uh
also very close collaboration with
universities um like Chinua or Chang
University. And the idea here is um
these statebacked AI labs would do sort
of a whole range of more basic research
uh standards making um sort of feed into
the um the R&D efforts of the private
sector. Um and they would do everything
from develop their own sort of
open-source uh models directly. They
might uh come up with evaluation um
systems. They might um also be involved
in uh uh AI safety discussions. So they
kind of cover a wide range. But um one
crucial thing that they do is they also
serve as sort of a training and um sort
of network node in this sort of broader
AI community within China. Um so they
help to develop talent. Um and sometimes
you get startups spun right out of um
some of these uh uh statebacked AI labs
like um uh Drupool is from um the
Beijing Academy of AI.
>> Yeah. And this this is right around the
time um when uh China being a basic R&D
uh powerhouse is like no longer a wish.
It's it's pretty much reality. I mean
like I remember when uh when I first
went to China which was in 2010 the the
phrase that you would always hear is you
know China cannot innovate they can only
copy.
Uh China did a ton of work to upskill
its universities to actually start
producing papers that mattered to
actually start you know doing research
that was worthwhile. Um and by 2017 a
lot of that stuff has been is bearing
fruit in a big way. And so what you're
saying here right is that like AI is
going to be a huge part of the focus of
the basic R&D effort and then there's a
mechanism why an expectation that that's
going to translate into private sector
you know benefits and and leadership. Um
I guess one other thing here is just
like the actual um education uh part of
the the story and and trying to produce
you know huge numbers of people who who
have AI relevant skill sets. How is that
going on?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So there's um there are
whole sort of centers set up at
universities at the Chinese Academy of
Sciences um that are aimed at you know
cutting edge research in AI and these
also again serve as sort of training
centers for a whole new generation of AI
um researchers and um and you can see
you know so you know these are backed
with everything from uh government
grants to again a lot of actually
partnerships with the uh the private
sector and um ultimately yeah the proof
is in the pudding. when you look at say
the co-authors of papers for uh Europe's
you know one of the top AI conferences
or sort of any any one of them um you
see a lot of uh Chinese researchers and
Chinese institutions um both public and
uh private tech uh firms as well.
>> Mhm. So, um I think what the final thing
that we haven't talked about and feel
free to tell me if there's other things
I'm missing, but that I think the the
other big tool in the toolbox that we
haven't talked about yet is government
guidance funds and uh being in involved
in the venture capital part of the
story. So, how does that work? Uh what
was going on around the time of this
strategic plan?
>> Yeah. So, um so in in general, um
government guidance funds are used in a
whole range of industries in China. Um
and the idea here is that um they're
kind of like a VC fund where the general
partner with the GP is um say uh some
government agency or set of bureaucrats
um uh and they sort of hold the uh
initial seed capital um but they invest
in in a certain area say say AI or
robotics or something like that um and
they bring in private sector investment
or and local government investment as
sort of like the LPS. Um, and the idea
here is to have like a crowding in
effect um to sort of uh leverage up the
uh capital that um the central
government has access to um and try to
direct broader you know sort of social
resources towards target industries and
AI is is one of those areas where you
have a number of um different government
guidance funds. So uh most recently
there is a AI specific fund that was
announced actually uh earlier this year
um $8 billion was sort of the scale um
and that was actually you know partly uh
pulling some some capital from the
semiconductor fund um so there's
actually a number of other funds some of
the biggest actually are in
semiconductors before this um trying to
do similar things and then another huge
fund that was announced you know just a
few months ago was this sort of National
VC guidance fund that was, you know, on
the scale of uh a trillion R&B and um
again sort of 130 140 uh billion
dollars. Um and it was um you know it
was really an event this announcement
because it was announced by the head of
the national development and reform
commission and called I think it was the
it like to translate it it's something
like carrier class like aircraft carrier
class level uh fund as in we have a
bunch of guidance funds out there but
this one is is sort of like the
mothership and it's going to be the
biggest one and it's going to be
targeted at um high-tech areas including
AI including especially embodied AI but
also other um you know uh areas like
quantum uh fusion things like that. Um
cool. So,
>> so, so you're you're you're taking us to
to present day and I and I want to get
there, but I want to um ask uh one final
question, you know, in the in the 2017
era before we transition there, which is
like um if you are a startup in AI,
um and you're located in one of these,
you know, tech zones of Beijing or
Shenzhen or Shanghai or what have you,
like what are all the ways that you're
benefiting from industrial policy? Like
what are all the ways that the
government is helping you whether you
know it or not, you know, like what is
what are all the ways that like
industrial policy is um you know putting
putting uh some accelerant in your gas
tank or whatever.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good way to
put it. So um some of them include sort
of direct investment, direct financial
assistance, um whether they are Yeah.
sort of capital injections, um loans,
things like that. Also um you benefit
from sort of investment in um in the
training in development of talent um in
the university systems both in your
local area and sort of nationally.
You're also benefiting potentially from
the compute infrastructure that I
mentioned earlier. Um so in many cases
um local governments will offer these
compute vouchers where you can get sort
of discounted access to compute um
drawing from especially these public
data centers. And the idea here is that
you know some of the big cloud service
providers in China like Alibaba and
Tencent they kind of want to keep their
compute for themselves to train their
large models and stay on the cutting
edge. So um it's harder for startups to
get access to that. So um this is a way
for them to kind of even the playing
field or at least get get a piece of the
pie that otherwise might have been
difficult. Um and then yeah and then
there's sort of broader sort of
regulatory support uh assistance with
sort of um cutting through bureaucracy
and um and just sort of setting up shop
normal sort of um business and
corporation uh uh processes things like
that.
>> Cool. Okay. So uh we've talked a lot
about this 2017 AI strategy document.
Now we're in 2025.
Did it work? Did they accomplish what
they were trying to accomplish? like
where are we today uh in terms of China
as uh an an AI superpower as Kyu Lee put
it in his book very memorably.
>> Yeah. So um so here I I would uh I would
step back and like think about
industrial policy as it pertains to AI
versus other sectors. So um you know one
thing that was very interesting sort of
doing this report is you know other
people might be familiar with like
Chinese industrial policy for steel or
ship building um and a lot of that might
involve scaling up pouring a ton of
capital or directing a ton of capital
into certain areas. Um but AI is
different we argue because of the
frequent paradigm shifts and the
emphasis on um you know cutting edge
innovation. um like you can't just sort
of like focus on one direction and sort
of double down for year you know year
after year and hope that that will bear
fruit um and this the ground sort of
moved from underneath um policy makers
and the tech industry in China with uh
the emergence of chat GBT um and there
again you know previously uh China had
been focused especially you I mentioned
earlier on sort of computer vision and
things like that um generative AI was um
there were some efforts to build uh
language models and so I mentioned
actually some of the stateback local AI
labs were involved with this. Um but
ultimately a lot of people in China were
caught by surprise and um some of the
policies that were aimed at uh you know
other you know sort of the older AI
paradigm um some of that could be reused
in part um some of the data center
buildout um was somewhat useful um
although that has sort of mixed uh
implementation exe or execution um but
uh some of the focus need to be needed
to be reoriented um and so yeah I I
think what we see right now in some ways
is um in the past few years has been
sort of a scrambling to catch up. Um so
there were some factors that helped
China catch up um pre-Chat GPT. So I
mentioned some especially some of these
things relate to basic research and
talent development.
>> Yeah. Matt Matt um Matt Sheihan who is
at Carnegie and we had on the podcast
not long ago talking about the the
Chinese regulatory uh part of the story.
Um he said and I thought he he made this
interesting point which is until chat
GBT China thought they were at least in
a tie and maybe ahead of the United
States uh in AI and then that forced
them to sort of recalibrate their
assumptions.
>> That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Um and there
was even sort of an ambivalence about
generative AI in the early days and and
I think um Mania might might have
actually talked about this before where
um it it was sort of seen a bit as a a
risk a liability perhaps you know what
is the content that's being generated in
a way similar not maybe not totally
dissimilar to um some of the concerns in
the US except that um the content we're
talking about is especially content that
could um you know sort of the usual
content that was censored uh in China on
the internet um previously. So um
political content, right? So yeah, so
there there was a sort of catching up a
sense that like actually China's not
behind. Um and while you do have this
sort of like nice tailwind of uh all
that investment in sort of broader uh AI
scientific knowledge, um there there was
a big pivot and a lot of the tech
companies too uh really had to shift and
sort of double down on and and basically
build their own uh LLMs in order to
catch up. And now we see sort of the
fruits of that uh bearing out. And you
know the question is whether you know
these efforts will continue going
forward and what might actually be sort
of critical for China to even have a
hope of um you know staying in the race
and and one of those is actually chips
and uh the export controls and sort of
the the the potentially growing gap in
compute capacity between the US and
China.
>> Yep. So, uh, in this paper, um, you've
got this, uh, lovely chart, which for
those of you who are watching on video,
I'm I'm holding up right now. Um, but
it's a doozy of a chart because it maps
the AI stack, right? Whether that's the
physical applications of AI, the
software applications of AI, the data,
the training of the models, the R&D, the
data centers, the underlying chips, you
know, all these different parts of the
AI stack. and then thinking about uh
what are the industrial policy tools
that are being used in order to support
those various parts of the AI stack. So
we talked a bit about like what AI
industrial policy looked like in the you
know ballpark 2017 time frame. There's a
lot of detail in this paper and so I'm
going to kind of throw it over to you as
to like what's the right way to organize
the next phase of the the the
conversation. um maybe by the maybe by
the segments of the stack, maybe by the
tools in the toolbox, I don't know. But
how would you characterize like what is
Chinese industrial AI policy today?
>> Yeah. So the topline summary is that um
China's applying industrial policy tools
across every layer of the AI tech stack
um from chips to compute to foundation
models to uh applications and especially
into physical applications. um es, you
know, including robotics. Um there's you
can find some kind of um policy program
or or fund or uh lever that they're
trying to pull to uh to kind of fuel uh
progress in that area.
>> Mhm. Great. So, um just defer to you
talk about, you know, some of these
elements of the stack that you think are
particularly illustrative or
illuminating and uh what are some of the
tools that are being used using it?
Yeah. So, uh, one area is actually chips
that you could argue is sort of like an
overlap between, um, semiconductor
industrial policy and AI industrial
policy. Um, and some of this is not
originally aimed at AI per se, but has
become very useful, if not critical for
China's AI product.
>> I think it's probably worth worth saying
here, right? Conductors featured very
prominently in made in China 2025.
>> Yes. And then in 2020 there was document
number eight which was a big industrial
policy uh document for semiconductors.
So the the Chinese government has been
you know pedal to the floor cut the
brakes uh on on semiconductors for a
very long time. But unsurprisingly right
the the Biden administration's AI chip
export controls really made crystal
clear the relationship between uh AI and
AI chips. the kind of chips that Nvidia
makes. So, um, what does the the Chinese
government, you know, see there and what
are they trying to accomplish and what
tools are they using to accomplish it?
>> Yeah. So, in many ways, they're trying
to create sort of Chinese domestic
alternatives to the industry standards
and hardware, especially sort of Nvidia
GPUs. Um, and I think the story, you
know, you talk about actually a lot on
on this podcast and you've done some
great work on this of uh Huawei in
particular and it's Ascend series of AI
chips trying to offer an alternative
that would be safe from uh or get around
sort of US sanctions uh on on export
controls on on Nvidia chips to China and
these are changing. So you know you can
think about a chart over time about the
performance of Nvidia chips that uh
Chinese tech companies can legally
access has been going down over time
with multiple now generations of sort of
performance degradation. Um Huawei chips
are sort of gradually improving in their
hardware capabilities. Um but what's
interesting is even when you're starting
to get a convergence between what's
available from say foreign chips and
domestic chips in in China um there's
still reluctance of a lot of Chinese AI
companies to make that switch over to
say Huawei. Um and so there's a whole
bunch of reasons for that. Uh you know
some of it involves CUDA and the
difficulty of American um tech companies
uh in terms of moving away from the
Nvidia platform. Um and you know there
are other sort of factors such as uh
Huawei's own limited uh ability to
produce uh chips to a certain extent uh
or uncertainty about supply chip supply
for for Huawei chips. Um but it actually
extends even beyond just um hardware
itself. So you know I mentioned CUDA
Huawei has its own alternative can um
Huawei actually has developed um a
number of sort of like uh open-source
layers that are alternatives. Um so
Minespore is Huawei's sort of answer to
PyTorch. Um then there's even sort of uh
Chinese alternatives to GitHub um like
Git. Uh Open Eye is sort of like a AI um
code sharing platform uh uh and
benchmarking platform. There there's
sort of all these different Chinese
alternatives. A lot of them are open
source. And the crucial thing to
understand here is that um they're
really trying to build up a comparable
ecosystem. And it's not just about sort
of raw performance or raw capabilities.
It's about
>> yeah building up the software libraries,
the tools that uh are mature enough that
you can sort of deploy pretty quickly. I
mean if you think about Chinese AI
developers are similar to AI developers
anywhere. They just want to make the
coolest stuff as fast as possible and
they'd rather spend less time on
tweaking, you know, some sort of uh less
used Huawei architecture and just go
with, you know, what they what they see
as best-in-class and move on. Um, and so
there's this problem right now sort of
almost like
um a game theory problem where they need
to switch as UX export controls become
more and more stringent, but they really
really want to wait till the last minute
to do that. Uh and in fact um sort of
you know Nvidia's you know potentially
new further degraded chip that they they
might um introduce into China they it
seems like there's still actually quite
a bit of appetite uh market demand for
that in among Chinese tech companies. Um
so that that tells you something about
you know sort of the unwillingness to
move away from Nvidia or conversely the
uh lack of desire of uh shifting to uh
say Huawei platforms.
>> Cool. Um, so we talked about uh the data
centers part of the story, which I
assume is mostly still the same right
now, like they're just building a hell
of a lot of data centers. Uh, we talked
about the semiconductor part of the
story. What about the applications of
AI, both uh software and physical
applications of AI?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So this is an area where
there's a lot of activity um and um both
by Chinese tech startups and also by
sort of more established players like um
Tencent and Alibaba um as well as their
spin-offs like an Financial. So um there
are some companies like um Banron that
are trying to focus on medical AI and
diagnostics um and they almost sort of
like got pushed out by DeepSeek and
decided that they just rather double
down on building out um medical
diagnostic data sets with uh with um
with doctors for for example or there's
efforts say uh with an Financial um
which is a offshoot of Alibaba um trying
to develop AI tools for personal finance
uh things like that. Um there are um
efforts to develop sort of AI tools for
education, language learning. Um you
know at this point there's it's almost
sort of like every company is trying to
put deepseek you know in in their model
in in their application as well. Um so
you see this broader roll out. The
industrial policy part of this is that
you have a lot of support from local
governments for u for these startups.
Again, I mentioned um you know, access
to compute sort of these compute
vouchers are useful. Um these uh AI
pilot zones where um startups can set up
more easily and
>> and sometimes not even have to pay rent,
right? Like you uh Yeah. If you put it
in one of the government office
buildings. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, it's funny because it's
like a AI seems to be, you know, so
software digital, but it it still
requires some of these um physical
inputs like office space uh and physical
proximity to other researchers and tech
companies um uh doing similar things.
So, that's where some of these um local
government initiatives um play a role in
supporting the application side uh of
this whole process. Um yeah, cool.
So, one thing that we haven't talked
about and and I'm not even sure it it it
falls under the the realm of industrial
policy, um, but I think it's so
fascinating and I've wanted to ask you
about this for a really long time.
Uh, so I'm just going to, you know,
shoot my shot here. And that is the role
of um intellectual property protection
and what you might call uh for lack of a
better word competition policy um in
China. And so I want to start by reading
um this passage from Kyu Lee's book AI
superpowers. And he is talking about the
post2010
rise of hypercompetitive and cutthroat
Chinese technology firms. He calls them
quote copycat gladiators. Um, but I
think there's something really
interesting here that that has
definitely, you know, been a throughine
uh of Chinese technology culture. Um,
and obviously the government has has a
role here. So, uh, here's the quote.
It's a long one, so bear with us
everyone. Silicon Valley may have found
the copying of Chinese tech companies
undignified and the tactics unsaavory.
In many cases, it was. But it was
precisely this widespread cloning, the
onslaught and of thousands of mimicking
competitors. And this gets back to what
you were saying uh Kyle about, you know,
BU being a Google clone and so on and so
forth. Um that forced companies to
innovate. Survival in the internet
coliseum required relentlessly iterating
products, controlling costs, executing
flawlessly, generating positive PR,
raising money at exaggerated valuations,
and seeking ways to build a robust
business moat to keep the copycats out.
Pure copycats never made for great
companies, and they couldn't survive
inside this coliseum. But the trial by
fire competitive landscape created when
one is surrounded by ruthless copycats
had the result of forging a generation
of the most tenacious entrepreneurs on
earth. As we enter the age of AI
implementation, this cutthroat
entrepreneurial environment will be one
of China's core assets in building a
machine learning driven economy. So
number one, do you agree with that story
and and is it still true today? And two,
did this just happen or did like the
government try to make this happen?
>> Yeah. So I I I actually largely agree
and I think that this sort of um yeah I
guess one word is copycat another word
is sort of diffusion of business models
ideas features um is very very fast and
not just for AI but this is where sort
of like my other work on industrial
policy helps me understand what's
happening with AI because you look at a
bunch of other sectors like electric
vehicles today where you have you know
over 80 maybe even 100 um EV brands in
China all sort of duking it
um maybe barely making a profit if any
um but sort of fiercely you know engaged
in this domestic competition and whoever
emerges from that um you know maybe it's
B maybe it's some other sort of upstart
that we don't even we haven't even heard
about today um they would be globally
competitive uh and quite formidable uh
in uh international
>> so this I think is a this this I think
is is really an astute point connecting
it to EVs because if you think about um
industrial policy it it had a bad reput
reputation in economics for a very very
long time because it was connected with
protectionism and import substitution.
And if you look at like you know random
Eastern European uh countries like uh
what what was at the time called
Yugoslavia right like they had a car
industry and it was protected uh from
foreign competition because if it wasn't
protected from foreign competition it
was going to be obliterated um because
the cars were terrible. Um and so when
you and the point here being that like
most of these economies, the domestic
market is not large enough to breed a
market that is competitive enough with
multiple players achieving relevant
economies of scale so that those
companies can go out and be globally
competitive. When you have small
countries building industries that are
globally competitive, it's usually a
story of like a South Korea or a Taiwan
where they're overwhelmingly focused on
the export market and foreign technology
transfers and and investing in the
country to upskill that industry is like
a huge part of um the story. What's
different about China is that their
domestic market is large enough and
competitive enough um that you can be
born behind protectionist walls as BU
was, as Alibaba was, etc., and yet grow
up to be globally competitive even
though you started out for a very long
time not having to compete on the global
stage. And I think like what Kyu Lee is
pointing out here is that like you might
think that that protectionism made, you
know, them them have to deal with fewer
threats and therefore be less
competitive, but actually like it was a
it was a coliseum and everybody's like
dying like flies out there. And I think
what what you just pointed out by
connecting it to the electric vehicle
industry is, you know, China's division
of power between the central government,
which sets these objectives, um, and the
provincial governments, which usually
are the ones doing out the subsidies,
>> has resulted in like so many local
governments having their local champion.
Yes. For electric vehicles. And so now
you have those 80 to 100 companies that
you mentioned who were all duking it
out. So, I don't know if this was like
some genius level master plan, right, by
like the Chinese government of like how
do we create an epically competitive
market. Let's have each province, you
know, come up with two to three
companies and then like whoever survives
that tiger fight, you know, will be the
ultimate carnivore predator uh in the
history of the earth. Um, but that's
kind of what's happening. I mean, that's
what BYD is. They're like the the the
the the tiger that survived the longest
um in this in this coliseum. And there's
um I don't know if it's it's fair to say
that there's an equivalent of that um in
AI, but you are seeing like very very
pro- startup. They want to create a hell
of a lot of companies. They want to
create market opportunities for those
companies and they don't like they may
restrict foreign competition, but they
don't restrict domestic competition. At
least not that I could see.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I that's I I agree
with that. Um the one twist I would add
to that is that uh um there are other
large uh economies like Brazil and India
that um also kind of struggled. I mean
maybe even Russia to a certain extent.
Um they also had a degree of
protectionism and sort of import
substitution but they weren't able to
generate that kind of uh fierce internal
domestic competition that yielded global
champions at the level that China seems
to be doing uh in in other industries.
Um and so yeah I think I think your
point though is um you know how
deliberate was this? I do think that
there is an effort to kind of like
almost generate bubbles in the Chinese
system akin to almost like uh private
capital So like not not a not a not a
bug. This is a feature.
>> Yeah, that's what I would argue that um
the idea is to kind of um pour a bunch
of resources or get channel a bunch of
resources into a priority area and um
and that would you know maybe that that
results in a whole bunch of redundancy.
you know, every province, every city is
coming up with its own battery plant or
solar factory uh or or solar champion or
AI uh company. And at some point, right,
it doesn't it's not fun to be one of
those companies, right? Um but
ultimately at the sort of national
level, it does create enough of that uh
enough the resources and enough of that
sense of um competitiveness that allows
you to then translate into sort of
international uh leaders.
>> Yeah. Okay. I I I kind of like what
you're saying about like intentional
bubbles. Maybe another way to frame it
is like the right when your when you're
a when your country is nobody in a in an
industry that is globally competitive,
the right amount of investment is
overinvestment.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. You know, because if you if you're
like, okay, we want, I don't know, uh
15% of global automobile market share,
right? Like the Soviet system would have
been like, okay, well, we need to build
so many factories that can produce so
many cars and that number of cars will
be 15%. Right? But like, you know, when
you're trying to, you know, match supply
and demand as like a bureaucrat, you
know, you're probably just going to
create these lousy companies whose like
primary skill set is like interfacing
with bureaucrats as opposed to building
awesome cars, right? Whereas if you're
China, you say like, "Okay, we want 15%
of automobile manufacturing capacity."
So, we should build enough factories to
take over 35% of global automobile
manufacturing because 20% of that is
going to be wasted on loser companies
that go nowhere. The 15 like the people
who survive will definitely be capable
of taking 15% of the market.
>> Yeah, I think I think you're on to
something there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I think all of this,
including sort of the AI um full stack
industrial policy, I think a lot of this
is sort of not so scientific um and
precise as it is sort of almost vibes
based, right? Like nobody's quite sure,
including the policy makers, exactly
which layer is going to be the most
important. Um and they're not exactly
sure which amount of funding would be,
you know, sort of just the right amount.
So in general they kind of do this
kitchen sig approach where they're
trying to attack sort of every level of
the uh tech stack or they're trying to
attack every sort of segment of the
supply chain when it comes to um EVs or
batteries and they're trying to just
make sure that there's uh air on the
side of having too much investment and
too much production rather than air on
the side of not having enough especially
given that China always has a sort of
catch-up mindset that like
technologically economically it still
sees itself as uh catching up trying to
you know reach us levels of you know
what ind industrial development or or
technological development so in that
sense you know better to step on the gas
harder rather than to sort of carefully
modulate how much you're you're going
for it
>> okay so um obviously you know China is
an unfathomably massive uh place with a
lot of diversity of opinion um even in
the inside the Chinese government. Uh,
of course there's diversity of opinion,
although a lot of that is opaque uh,
intentionally, you know, to the
outsiders, but to the extent that we
could sort of oversimplify and rack and
stack and rank um, China's goals, um,
you've talked about self-sufficiency,
right? They want to have a Chinese
option for every single element of the
the stack. We've talked about like
global leadership in in technology. uh
they want to have the best stuff. Um
we've talked about adoption. They just
want to make sure that as many different
segments of the economy as possible are
using AI and and adopting it, you know,
as as fast as possible. Um how would you
rank those three goals if like Xi
Jinping was to say like here's the
here's the thing I care the most about.
Here's the thing I care the second most
about. Here's the thing I care the third
most about. And and maybe I forgot some
other goal that's even more important.
So feel free to add to to my list.
>> Yeah. I I I would probably put at the
very top, this is going to sound a
little bit vague, but sort of like
technoeconomic power or something like
that or national power broadly. Um, so
to the extent that the economy is
bigger, that's good to the but but
that's not enough. And to the extent
that China is starting to move up the
value chain in certain industries,
that's also very good. But it needs to
be sort of like across the board and it
needs to be um in a way sort of like you
mentioned before with the self-reliance
aspect where um China feels like it's
you know development trajectory can't be
uh you know they always sort of
characterize it as blocked or u knocked
off
>> interrupted. Right. Right. That's you
know that's always how they put it. Um
so like this sort of idea of just sort
of um moving up the uh uh uh yeah
there's obviously geopolitical
implications to all this but sort of
moving up um across all these different
levels at once. Um and I think AI then
is sort of another uh way of getting
there another you know both a metric in
and of itself of success and also a tool
for for reaching sort of a greater level
of like technoeconomic development.
>> Yeah. Um, I think uh that's very well
said. So, um, I certainly agree
self-sufficiency is a a massive goal.
Um, I certainly think that uh they they
still care about leadership, although
parts of the self-sufficiency thing kind
of make me think that they're willing to
trade uh weaker technology in exchange
for more self-sufficiency, certainly in
the short term. Um, one that we haven't
talked quite as much about is the
adoption part of the story.
You know, I remember uh after the sort
of Deepseek uh hype cycle that happened
in, you know, January and February of
this year, the CEO of Deepseek got a
meeting with Xiinping and then uh I'm
I'm blanking on the name of the Chinese
government agency, but some Chinese
government agency basically directs all
the stateowned enterprises like started
using deepsek in everything that you're
doing.
Can you talk a little bit about like and
sorry uh please repeat the name of that
organization but can you talk a little
bit about like what the Chinese
government is doing to drive adoption of
AI?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So that organization
specifically is SEAC uh the state assets
supervision authority uh something like
that. I always the full acronym but
basically it's sort of almost like this
uh state holding company um that
actually holds the most powerful central
uh stateowned enterprises. So uh a lot
of the oil energy telecom you know these
are all sort of under that same
umbrella.
>> It owns uh huge equity shares of all of
these data enterprises is this or this
is the organization that owns those.
>> It's like the parent organization for
all for all of them. Um and uh and then
what they can do as this sort of parent
organization is they can um they can
tell their uh their their companies to
um to to do certain things to uh and
actually before AI you know there is a
push by them to um increase uh uh carbon
efficiency for example um so AI is now a
new area where they're saying you you
must all come up with a plan for rolling
out AI in some form or fashion. Um and
that's especially helped with um deep
deepseeks open model uh open weights
model. So so that that is something that
is a lever that I think is different
than what you would see all you know
certainly in the American system. Um but
more broadly, yeah, on this adoption
question, um yeah, I would tie it
actually a lot to the open source push.
um because uh I think they're they're
very connected where um you know now we
actually see a shift in among some of
the um larger uh tech companies, private
tech companies in China, but actually a
lot of um tech companies in China um
like this open source approach because
yeah a lot of their their main problem
is building up a user base, building up
an ecosystem, building enough uh up up
enough um sort of dependencies uh that
other companies would want to make that
leap and and try a Chinese platform or
try their specific platform and and um
sim similar also with a lot of the the
models and tools that are being
developed by these um statebacked AI
labs I mentioned earlier um almost all
of those are open source so there's this
idea that um you know you you create
sort of like uh limited barriers to to
adoption and that will help um to fusion
at the same time you have sort of like
you know if that's sort of like removing
barriers um then you have sort of more
proactive things like but also at the
local government level Um, you know,
Beijing has a plan, uh, Shanghai has a
plan. You you see a different
municipalities roll out AI adoption
plans. You know, they actually try to
spell out, you know, um, what aspects of
the Beijing mun municipal uh, government
services might be uh, um, automated or
um, might use AI in some form. Um, so
there's there's definitely an effort
both sort of um, trying to break down
the barriers, but also trying to uh,
push push for adoption um, especially at
the local level. Very cool. So now I
want to ask you uh to pull out your
crystal ball and let's talk about where
we might be headed, where China might be
headed uh in this story. So um you know,
China has this industrial policy towards
AI that you've characterized. Um to me
it seems uh at least directionally
consistent with the 2017 strategy which
is full steam ahead you know right um it
doesn't seem likely that they're going
to you know turn that off anytime soon.
Um there is of course you know US
efforts to try and uh slow uh China's
rise uh coming from multiple angles. Um
so where do you think uh China is
headed? I guess here I'm kind of asking
you to bring in your your New York Times
piece. Um, where I I don't want to spoil
it, but you you can talk about it. So,
where do you think China might be in
terms of AI and competition with the
United States or whatever in a year, in
5 years, in 10 years? Uh, and and let's
let's assume, you know, we both the UDS
and both China mostly stick with the
approach they've had now. And then maybe
at the end we can talk about some policy
interventions that you would recommend.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So um so I see um a number
of different trajectories but but the
but one big one um could be that uh
China would end up um doing very well in
their race to with with the US and AI um
maybe keeping pace or um you know in
some areas perhaps uh in terms of um
sort of model development um despite
sort of reduced access to compute um you
might have some innovations there that
would be would be new to the American
system. Um,
>> now wait a second here, Kyle. You know,
your the title of your New York Times
piece is in the future, China will be
dominant, the US will be irrelevant, and
what you're saying here sounds a little
bit more of a mixed bag. So, uh, you
know, talk us talk us through the
difference between your your title and
what you just said.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So I mean overall actually
aside from AI because there's um there's
a big wild card there with the compute
um I do see that in a in a whole range
of industries we're talking about EVs
auto uh energy uh renewable clean energy
we're talking about um traditional
industries um going back to ship
building we're talking about also um
even uh aircraft uh production um
there's uh there's a huge push in China
industrial policy push in many of these
areas and there's a lot of progress
being made and in many of these areas
China is either catching up or even
possibly ar you know arguably um
starting to edge ahead and rolling the
picture forward um I argue that because
China is sort of doubling down uh on its
sort of model of state supported um but
still um you know private sector you
know uh uh driven you know sort of this
combination of both um innovation and
sort of scaling up that uh China will um
like either be a leader or uh a close uh
competitor uh with the with the US and
with Europe and Japan and other
countries um in a lot of these in a lot
of these fields. That is one where I
have to hedge a bit because um yeah
there there's a lot of uh there's some
big wild cards here. Yeah. Because I
mean in the piece you you said uh and
these are juicy quotes. So I do I
definitely encourage everybody to go
read uh the the piece, but you said um
America by contrast may end up as a
profoundly diminished nation. Sheltered
behind tariff walls, its companies will
sell almost exclusively to domestic
consumers. The loss of international
sales will degrade corporate earnings,
leaving companies with less money to
invest in their businesses. And then it
goes on, um, traditional high-value
industries such as car manufacturing and
pharmaceuticals are already being lost
to China. The important industries of
the future will follow. Imagine Detroit
or Cleveland on a national scale. I
mean, that's a profoundly bleak picture.
And you're saying that actually AI might
be one of the bright spots where the
United States is more competitive than
it is in say car manufacturing or
pharmaceuticals. Is that do I understand
you correctly?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, um, yeah. So, part of
the story for that New York Times piece
was also looking at the US trajectory.
And so, I was trying to draw this
contrast where China was doubling down
on, um, you know, funding for basic
research, R&D, on tech, innovation and
forging ahead on sort of all these
industries while at the same time um,
you know, in the past few months, we
have in in the US a cutting back on the
very things, the very factors that made
the US a superpower. Uh um so that's
again a lot of these same factors
investment in basic basic research um
creating an open environment for foreign
researchers including actually
ironically Chinese researchers who um
are very active in the US AI uh uh uh
ecosystem. Um, and so I just saw that if
we roll that picture forward, if we roll
forward the trends of the past few
months in the US with sort of these uh
these cuts and these these uh crackdowns
on um you know the sort of core factors
of production is is one way to put it
for American leadership while at the
same time China's doubling down and and
making actually quite rapid progress in
a whole bunch of areas then yeah in 10
20 years this could have not just
economic consequences you know in terms
of um you know lost corporate for
revenue. But this could have uh
consequences in terms of um jobs,
especially the higherp paying jobs that
might be attached to high-tech
industries. Um and even the sense that
like um you know, US scientific and
technological leadership up until this
point was taken for granted. Um a line
that didn't make it into the piece was
we take for granted that the next Nvidia
or Google will be started in the US. Um
and now that's not as uh as certain. So
um yeah, part of this is sort of rolling
forward the trajectory of these two
countries um based on especially uh
what's been happening uh lately in the
US
>> and in AI specifically do things like
you know Open AI announcing somewhere
between 100 and 500 billion for Stargate
other you know big tech companies
announcing these massive investment
pools is that what gives you confidence
that the situation might uh be better in
AI or is it something else.
>> Yeah. So I think for AI the compute is
is definitely a huge factor both in
terms of um you know you you just have
incredible spending on compute capacity
and expansion of comput capacity in the
US. Um I I I think there was some
estimate that uh this year alone the um
the largest four US tech companies will
spend like over $300 billion or
something like that on uh um AI
infrastructure including data centers.
um and and that seems to be um um a
large amount of investment going
forward. At the same time, um China's
compute situation um is dependent on um
US export controls and China's ability
to get around them. So here um you know
while the US is sort of like uh charging
ahead with more compute and also um the
chips are getting better, right? So
they're they're able to take advantage
of increasingly um sophisticated uh AI
chips especially from Nvidia. Um China
is getting less access to those chips,
getting more degraded versions of those
chips, is still trying to build up its
own alternatives which are not uh
anywhere near the level um of what's
available internationally outside of
China. Um and that gap is growing at the
perch chip level. Uh and that gap is
growing at the sort of national compute
level potentially. Um and so yeah you
know one you know related wild cards are
whether the US will um sort of ramp up
export controls even further u make them
more stringent and on the Chinese side
um to what extent Huawei or other um GPU
makers in uh in China might be able to
develop um uh comparable offerings um or
at least enough to to sort of stay in
the race. And what what I have started
saying about um Huawei specifically as a
competitor to Nvidia is you know Nvidia
is going to go from phenomenal awesome
chip to even more phenomenal awesome
chip. But Huawei the the Ascend 910B is
like a bad chip. Um and it's it's not
just bad because of export controls.
like Huawei had a lot of design
optimization decisions for like what
types of workloads they might have
envisioned their customers doing it and
like it was not uh especially
welldesigned you know to run LLMs of the
architectures that we run right now and
uh the Huawei competitive to CUDA is
like a train wreck um at least for right
now and so while Nvidia is going to go
from you know phenomenal to even more
phenomenal Huawei is going to go from
nonviable
to viable
And that actually might end up being a
more important strategic transition
because like made a lot of dumb
decisions with designing the 910b, but
they have smart enough to fix those
decisions. And the CUDA, you know,
alternatives are terrible. But that is
the kind of problem where if you just
throw 10,000 software engineers at it
for a couple years, they'll make a
boatload of progress. And so, um, yeah,
Huawei is in a very, very, very tough
spot right now. Um, but I do think that
they're going to make this nonviable to
viable jump. Um, and that's like
something really important to watch uh
over the next uh you know 2 to four
years.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And I and I
think also um kind of related to all
this you know questions about uh um
pre-training versus inference uh custom
compute um you know so some of the
Huawei essenti have been used more for
inference um and to the extent that that
could be an area where China Chinese
tech companies could make progress on
more um versus sort of scaling up just
at the at the pre-training level um that
could be another factor. Um there are
also questions about sort of the future
of the AI industry in general about
whether um for example uh agents will
mean that um cutting edge models are
more important than ever um that they
actually might not be um commoditized
that it might really matter that every
step of the way you're you're doing it
99.999%
accurately versus 99% accurately.
So yeah, I I think you know in a world
where um where that doesn't matter as
much then um China might have sort of
good enough chips you know if if Huawei
can get their act together if sort of
the ecosystem can be slowly built up on
um you know Chinese domestic platforms
then they might be okay. Um the question
is uh you know whether there could be
even you know future paradigm shifts
compute could be even more important. So
it it can go in many different different
directions here. So that's why I I sort
of like hedge on on the AI issue. Um
it's hard to uh extrapolate in the AI
world from even just the past few
months.
>> Well, you know, this is this is why
you're a a rigorous scholar at a fancy
university and not a a um you know,
classless DC pundit, you know, just
throwing out hot takes uh and expressing
absolute confidence in all of them for
no no real reason. Uh but thank you for
laying out the possible scenarios of the
future. Thank you for, you know, walking
us through the the past, present, and
future of Chinese industrial policy uh
towards AI. Um Kyle, I thought it was an
awesome uh conversation. And I just want
to um give two uh you know, shout outs
here. First of which is the the full
paper um is available from Rand. Uh Kyle
co-authored it with uh Gregory Smith,
Jimmy Goodrich, Gerard Depipo,
Constantine Plitz um and all good
people. And uh highly recommend reading
that. And I also highly recommend
reading uh Kyle's Substack uh where
there's lots of good stuff on so many
different aspects of uh China's economy,
industrial policy, and US China
competition, not just in AI. So uh Kyle
Chan, thanks so much for coming on.
>> Thank you. This was really fun.
>> All right, take care.
>> Thanks.
>> Thanks for listening to this episode of
the AI Policy Podcast. If you like what
you heard, there's an easy way for you
to help us. Please give us a five-star
review on your favorite podcast platform
and subscribe and tell your friends. It
really helps when you spread the word.
This podcast was produced by Sarah
Baker, Satie McCulla, and Matt Mand. See
you next time.
[Music]
