[Music]
Welcome back to the AI policy podcast.
Today we've got a big episode on
everything at the intersection of AI,
jobs, and AI's impact on labor. And we
have a especially qualified guest to
talk about this. He is the former chief
economist of the US Department of Labor
and also a professor at Georgetown
University's McCort School of Public
Policy. I'm speaking about Harry who is
the co-author of a paper recently
published on AI's impact of labor, but
he has a long and distinguished career
studying the labor market from a bunch
of different angles, including
technologies impact on it. And so that's
why we're so glad to have him. Harry,
thanks for coming on the AI Policy
Podcast.
>> Uh, good to be here, Greg. Thank you.
>> So, I uh talked with you I talked with
the audience just a moment ago and
explaining your bio uh about how you've
had an enormously, you know,
distinguished career. Um, but I want to
ask, you know, you've been a labor
economist for more than 40 years. What
were some of the most important
experiences that shaped your interests
and where you are today? And I'm I'm
especially keen if uh if any of those
intersect with the technological
evolution over the past four decades. Um
well, I'll throw out two uh one from uh
earlier in my life. Um I actually grew
up in a rural area uh on a chicken farm
uh the oldfashioned kind with long
chicken coops in the backyards and where
where all the chicken were free range.
This is going to come as a shock to some
of the listeners, but uh I grew up in
Kansas and we also had chickens, but
they were just like the chickens from my
kindergarten class that we decided to
take over and we weren't actually
farmers,
>> right? Um and my parents are immigrants.
They're Holocaust survivors. So, I I had
a sense that life can be hard for people
uh sometimes economically, sometimes uh
socially or emotionally. And and that
led to my interest in a career where I
could maybe help people adjust uh
economically. I would say the other
thing once I actually got my PhD and
started doing work, I I've always I've
always focused on fairly disadvantaged
groups in the job market, uh, low-wage
workers, people of color, did a lot of
work on young black men, especially
black men without college degrees, and
you get a sense of, you know, it's a
complicated issue. People make a lot of
choices, but you get a sense that a lot
of people have very, very limited
opportunities. uh and if we could help
them and including for reasons like
automation uh among other things. So if
we could help them a little bit that
that would be a good thing as well and
that has also motivated my work. Yeah.
And I think you know today uh when we
talk about AI automation oftentimes
folks are thinking at like the high end
of the labor market you know like
automating programmers but for most of
the past 100 years automation and even
the disruptions from trade has been
primarily targeted at the the low wage
side of the labor market. Right? We we
have a term for that in labor economics.
We call it skill bias. And most most of
the automation historically has been
skill biased in favor of more skilled
workers. whatever that is at any point
in time. Uh certainly the digital
revolution which started about 45 years
ago uh seems to have really benefited
college graduates and professionals uh
but really replaced uh a lot of people
without college people working on
assembly lines people working in offices
um and of course the big question is
will AI follow that pattern or not?
Yeah. And and so before we dive into the
AI impacts, I kind of want to give folks
uh I want you to give folks rather uh if
you can put on your professor hat um
labor economics 101 and labor policy
101. So let's start with like the
economics uh side of the equation. I
think most people have applied for a job
themselves and you know see the headline
unemployment numbers, but like what are
the fundamentals of the labor market?
How does it work? Well, so, so there's a
big interesting question uh that uh a
very prominent prominent labor economist
named David Aud uh he titled one of his
papers about a decade ago, why are there
still so many jobs? In other words,
we've have so many waves of automation
and ever since the lites, some people
have predicted that all the jobs would
disappear. Why why does that always turn
out to be wrong historically? The answer
is there's a couple things going on uh
in in the economy and in the labor
market. First of all, automation makes
the workplace more productive. Uh, and
it makes the workers who can use the
automation more productive. But when
productivity goes up, uh, that almost
always means costs go down, prices for
consumers go down. As as long as the
markets are competitive, uh, that means
the income, the price adjusted incomes
or wealth of of consumers goes up. They
spend more money. Sometimes they spend
money on the same products that they've
been buying, now they just buy a lot
more of it. Sometimes they spend the
money on new products, uh things like
smartphones that didn't exist 25 years
ago. Um and so that means there's a lot
more demand. Uh and and sometime so so
the the increase in demand and in in
spending by consumers creates more jobs
for a lot of workers. And sometimes
sometimes if you're talking about a
product that's relatively new, it's very
expensive early on. That was true of
automobiles uh more than a century ago.
It was true of personal computers and
smartphones 30 years ago. Uh smartphones
didn't even exist. But then the the drop
in price can be so dramatic that all of
a sudden it goes from being a luxury
good to something that can be sold on
the mass market. And that's when jobs
really grow very rapidly. It was true
when Henry Ford created the assembly
line uh and all of a sudden for the
first time cars were affordable uh to
the middle class to working class etc.
It's been true of PCs and smartphones in
more recent decades. So some jobs
disappear. Sometimes new categories of
jobs open up. So Henry Ford's assembly
line put the horse and buggy operators
and the and the craftsmen building, you
know, wagons to hitch to horses. It made
all that obsolete, but created hundreds
of thousands of new jobs for auto
workers that didn't exist before. And I
can give you many historical examples
like that. That very
>> that's the economics.
>> Yeah. And and I think we're going to
come back to a lot of those terms of art
you introduced. you know, not just uh
supply and demand, but elasticity of
supply, elasticity of demand, um a lot
of these things. But now I want to get
the the second, you know, part because
you already touched on technology a good
amount, but what about on the uh policy
side of the equation? So, I think
everybody knows there is a department of
labor, but I don't think everybody knows
what it is in doing all day. How many
people are working there? And then
what's the role of the the chief
economist, the the position that you
occupied? Well, the Department of Labor
oversees federal programs and federal
policies for workers for labor. Uh the
biggest bureau there is the Employment
and Training Administration. They
administer a lot of the job training
programs that the Department of Labor
oversees. They oversee unemployment
insurance, apprenticeship programs, and
then of course there's many other
there's programs like occupational
safety and health, uh mind safety, um
many other all of which touch on some
kind of policy. And that's very
important because
when when automation comes along, some
of the skills people have become
obsolete. Uh and and I didn't talk yet
about compliments and substitutes. Uh
some people already have the skills to
work with the technology. They're
compliments. Some people are replaced uh
their substitutes. But you want more
workers to adjust by picking up new
skills that make them compliments and
complent that enable them to use and
benefit from the new automation. Workers
need help doing that. uh they can do
some of that on their own, but that's
why we have all kinds of job training
programs, career and technical
education, and and things like
unemployment insurance for people who
lose their jobs for no fault of their
own and and need some time to adjust to
that. So, all of that is in the purview
of the Department of Labor.
>> Yeah. So, if I could I mean, I think
there's three functions that I heard
from you. Uh if I could play back to you
what I think I heard. Um, first the
Department of Labor has a critical role
at the federal level of enforcing
federal labor regulations and that could
be something like uh OSHA which you
mentioned occupational uh health and
safety or it could be something uh like
civil rights uh related for
>> could be civil rights o or or things
like wage and hour rules minimum wage
are you actually uh letting your people
have time off? are you actually doing
right so there's a regulatory aspect um
then there's the intervention aspect
where the the US government is actually
trying to shape the the nature of the
labor market which could be by these
retraining programs uh that you
described um it could be through
unemployment insurance trying to make
unemployment you know a less painful
financial disaster um and then I think
the third one is uh trying to study and
understand the labor labor market which
So data collection and publication of
statistics and advising Congress,
advising the executive branch kind of
thing. Are those the three sort of main
functions of the Department of Labor?
Did I get it right?
>> Yeah, I I think that's a good summary.
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, cool. And just out of curiosity,
like how many humans are at the
Department of Labor? Would you remember
what it was when you were there or what?
>> I I don't I don't remember, but what
it's important to remember that most of
the humans aren't in Washington DC
>> uh in the DO building. They're spread
around the country. Right. If you're an
OSHA inspector, you need to be where the
factories are.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Or or collecting data
or administering programs like
unemployment insurance. So, it's it's
bigger than the one building uh in
Washington. Got it. Okay. So, now let's
uh shift gears and uh talk about AI's
impact on the labor market. And um I
want to start with a report that came
out on October 1st from the Yale Budget
Lab and Brookings where you are a
non-resident uh senior fellow. And the
report was titled evaluating the impact
of AI on the labor market current state
of affairs. And so this is very much
tied to you know chat GPT being out for
about 3 years right now looking at the
generative AI revolution. And their
conclusion was that at least the metrics
that they studied indicate that the
broader labor market has not experienced
a discernable disruption since chat
GBT's release 33 months ago,
undercutting fears that AI automation is
currently, that's a key word, eroding
the demand for cognitive labor uh across
the economy. So the authors looked at
changes in like the economy's
occupational mix to evaluate the impact
of AI. Could you explain to our audience
what is the occupational mix and like
why is it a useful metric in in thinking
about this? Well, uh the issue of who is
exposed to AI on the job whether it's in
a positive way or a negative way uh
happens at the occupational level at the
job level uh every occupation involves
doing a set of tasks and it's the tasks
that automation might take over and in
this case AI might end up doing a lot of
the you know whether it's writing early
drafts of certain things or or composing
composing articles or music or anything
like that. So, so we tend to look at at
the occupational level. Now, there's an
important caveat to this. Uh the Yale
lab paper, which is a good paper, um
looked at very quite broad occupational
categories. Uh and I wondered if the
categories are are a little too broad,
uh to really be able to capture what's
going on. A different paper, a paper by
uh Eric Brinolson of Stanford uh and and
some of his co-authors looked much more
narrowly. They looked at
young college grads, people in their
mid20s roughly, and in some very
narrowly defined occupations like
customer service or software
development, which he picked cuz he
thought those were the occupations that
would be effective. And and there there
does seem to be some softening of the
job market for those people. But again,
you you had to cut the data very
narrowly by demographic group and by
occupation to to find some effects. And
we're not even sure if the effects he
found were really caused by AI or
something else that happened to happen
at the same time as
>> that's right. I mean, we know we know we
know the job market has softened in the
last year or two.
>> Yeah. Not least of which in the tech
sector where you had this massive hiring
spree associated with COVID and all the
demands of a world that wasn't going
outside and so everything digital was in
high demand and and the hiring move
associated with that. It's it's
difficult to look at the data and know
for sure that the impact you're looking
at is AIdriven versus other exogenous
factors. I mean that said there are
anecdotes. There are some noteworthy
CEOs who are uh talking about uh big you
know AI impacts. Just to give you one
example um Amazon CEO Andy Jasse wrote
an email in June to all Amazon employees
saying quote we expect AI and there I'm
adding AI. He said he was it but we
expect AI will reduce our total
corporate workforce as we get efficiency
gains from using AI extensively across
the company. And then uh just the other
day, this week, Fortune reported that
quote, "Amazon is preparing to cut as
much as 15% of its human resources staff
with additional layoffs likely in other
divisions." Now, they weren't
specifically attributing that to AI. Uh
you know, there's no official statement
on that, but I thought it was noteworthy
that um they really do think that uh
their workforce is going to be slimming
down as AI goes. So if the Yale paper um
is saying that there's no obvious
broad-based impacts yet and the Stanford
paper is saying maybe there are some
impacts uh in these you know categories
where we think it's the most exposed to
automation risk. You sort of uh look at
the expectations of executives like
leadership and Amazon and there's plenty
of others. I mean there's plenty of
startups that are saying like you know
we're going to hire 10 employees and
that's going to be the company for the
rest of the time. you know, as big as we
get, we're going to stick with 10. Um,
and and so I'm curious, you know, what
you uh make of all this. I mean, you
were talking about the the Brinolson
paper. What is your current sense of of
where we are right now in the automation
story and where we might be headed over
the next few years? So, I I I think it's
very early on um you know, maybe maybe
where the digital revolution and and PCs
were in the early 1980s.
uh and employers haven't yet figured out
the best way to implement this and even
the software developers I think are
still waiting for where's the market
going to go on this uh and and how
should they develop this an important
point of the story is that uh employers
and the AI developers are going to have
a lot of discretion in terms of how they
mold the product and how they implement
it and it can be done in a more worker
friendly fashion where it's designed for
workers to complement it or or or in a
more substitution or what they call
automation as opposed to augmentation
fashion. Uh we don't know yet. You know,
they'll be responding to the market. Um
and of course the other issue and and
I'm I'm sure there will be Amazon's one
company. There might be lots of other
it's a big company uh lots of other
companies where you might have a
slimming down role. But on the other
hand, number one, if they invest in at
least some retraining of the workers,
the workers might be able to pick up new
tasks that they don't do right now. So
if if in the Amazon uh warehouse, drones
are now, you know, flying around
distributing or robots. Um but there
might be some other product where demand
goes way up that that could be useful.
and and and are these workers do
employers create new jobs and then do
they retrain their existing workforce
for some of those new tasks and some of
those new functions? I just think it's
too early to tell on all of that.
>> Yeah. And I think one one thing is um
you know the the the variables you know
in the equation of how much of an impact
is AI have on the economy do not
explicit do not exclusively depend on
how good is AI at this specific moment.
Right? like the ceiling for how much
impact AI can have is set by the
capabilities of AI but the floor and the
present state a lot of other variables
can impact that and so let's just talk
about some like prior technological
revolutions including like revolutions
that you've you know observed over the
course of your career and had the had
the opportunity to study in the labor
market so there's there's one example
that um a mentor of mine uh you know
clerked for the Supreme Court and was a
lawyer at a prestigious law firm and he
said when he got there um he got his own
computer. He got like an IBM uh you know
a computer and he did his own typing and
it was like a scandal among the partners
of the law firm that he didn't have a
secretary take dictation. He was like
you're you're not doing your own typing
are you? Um and the point here being
that like the technology can be ready
but the workforce has to also be ready.
the culture has to be ready, the
businesses have to want to adopt it and
those kinds of things can be slow even
if the actual potential of the
technology is to be fast. And I think um
you know to give a another example that
um you know you mentioned the computer
revolution of of the 1980s in factory
manufacturing. One of the places where
that showed up and you know I'm a I'm a
business school graduate so I I think
about it in a lot of these terms but one
of the places where that showed up was
in enterprise resource planning uh
softwares. If you've ever heard of the
European software giant SAP, they're
they're a big uh player in this
industry. And they help you look at, you
know, what's all the inventory in my
factory, what are we planning on
manufacturing, what are we planning on
buying from our suppliers, how many
workers do we have right now, and what
could we make and at what price could we
charge? So, it's sort of helping you as
a factory manager decide what orders to
accept. And historically, this was done
on like massive paper spreadsheets, you
know, with the uh accounting department
and the supply chain department, etc.,
working together to plan all of this
stuff. And it took forever. And so they
only did it once a month. And then once
you had computers logging all of this
and and tagging it to to data that was
updated more frequently, um you know,
that went from a process that takes a
large department a month to calculate to
now the computer can just do it in an
hour. And what's so interesting is that
the companies that did this were
like,"Well, why aren't we getting these
massive productivity benefits?" And it's
because number one, like, did you get
rid of the department or did you keep
all those people? So, you didn't get any
wage savings. And then number two, are
you still only calculating it once a
month? you know, if it's if all you have
to do is just press go on the computer,
then you can run that calculation every
day and have a lot more um you know,
strategically informed decision-making
process as you're deciding, you know,
what contracts to accept and at what
price to accept them. And so the point
here is that there was this whole
process re-engineering that had to take
place for the benefits of the automation
technology to be seen. Um and so those
are you know examples of just big
sources of friction in the adoption of
the technology and therefore friction in
the uh impact of that technology on the
labor market. So I guess you know my my
my uh question to you is you know you uh
were in the seat uh and were a prominent
labor economist during the uh well you
were you were kind of late to the
computer revolution but to the internet
revolution to the mobile revolution to
the cloud-based software revolution and
to plenty of other I'm sure
technological disruptions outside of
just digital technology. So, you know,
what are what are some salient examples
in your own mind of how this story plays
out and and how we should think about
friction and other factors?
>> Well, uh I think everything you've said
is accurate. Um I I want to I want to
quote a very famous quote from a
wonderful economist named Robert Solo uh
who was a Nobel laureate uh whom I knew
quite well and he was looking at the
productivity numbers in the economy in
the 80s which were not very good and he
said but people were talking a lot about
these productivity effects. He says,
"Why why do we hear and see uh
productivity gains from computers
everywhere except in the numbers, the
economic numbers, but in the '90 the
numbers changed?" And you did start to
see it, but it it took a decade to work
out all of the things you're working out
for employers to figure out how to best
use these machines, uh which workers to
let go, which workers to retrain, all
those things. Um so that takes time. uh
and people and and by the way then all
kinds of new products and new startups
for people to spend their money on that
that create jobs that don't even exist
today. But you know another area much
more recently where you've seen
something like that is talk about
autonomous vehicles um five seven years
ago before the pandemic people were
assuming that that that
human-driven cars would be a thing of
the past very quickly. Oh yeah. I mean I
can give you two fun quotes on that.
Number one, I remember very quickly,
very clearly because I made a bet uh
related to it. Um in the summer of 2016,
the CEO of Ford said that you will have
Ford will be selling cars where you can
get in, sit down, fall asleep, be driven
to your destination. I think he said in
5 years. So by 2021. And then you know
that that same summer Elon Musk
predicted that full self-driving was
only one year away. and he has made that
same prediction every year in the
subsequent 10 years um that autonomous
vehicles now I actually see I see Whimos
you know on my drive to work pretty
frequently at this at this point here in
Washington DC so autonomous driving is
is certainly here but it's it didn't
take it wasn't nearly as fast as many
folks expected
>> that's right and there's a whole what
you might broadly call an infrastructure
uh some of those infrastru part of that
infrastructure is trained workers you
know workers who know how to service and
maintain the amo vehicles. Um lots of
other things adapting you know the light
system and all kinds of safety protocols
and and things like that and that just
takes a lot more time. Uh so we might it
might still come to pass uh in in the
relatively near future but but all that
highlights the point you made about
frictions uh and adjustment time.
>> Mhm. So um you know we've been uh
talking about uh mostly through the lens
of uh unemployment and layoffs as a
potential impact of AI and I want to get
your reaction to one of the most extreme
predictions that's out there uh on this
and this comes from an anthropic CEO
Dario Amodai. So in May he told Axios
that he believed that AI could eliminate
half of all entrylevel white collar jobs
within 5 years causing unemployment to
spike between 10 and 20%. Uh by contrast
Nvidia CEO Jensen Hang said that AI will
change jobs but not replace humans. So
can you just you know sort of walk us
through uh these these various theories
um and how AI could lead to mass
unemployment why people like Jensen
Huang and I believe yourself uh are
skeptical of the sort of mass
unemployment outcome.
>> Well well first of all we we we've we've
heard this song before uh going all the
way back to the Leites 200 years ago who
were who were convinced that automation
and and some of them had actually been
displaced by automation.
>> Oh yeah they No, they really did lose
their jobs. was they were that was a
real thing.
>> Yeah. The the the Leite Revolution for
those who aren't who don't remember from
high school history uh you know this was
a group of I believe they were weavers
like they took uh they took wool and
they spun it into fabric and that had
previously been a c cottage industry
where you do it at home. Uh but the
industrial revolution and this is even
the pre- steam engine industrial
revolution. This is just the sort of
like building machines that do stuff at
scale and and having a factory system.
Um put them all in business. either said
like either you come to the cities and
you work in the factories or you don't
have a job anymore. And so they decided
to stage a little riot where they
smashed the machines. Um and that's like
the you know in in in DC policy debates
on technology and unemployment it's sort
of a rule that somebody you know has to
to invoke the lite story at some point.
>> That's right. That's right. So um but
there have been much more recent
examples of of people including
economists predicting uh big waves of
joblessness. I mean, 20 years ago, a lot
of people were saying uh offshoring of
all work to China is going to wipe out
millions and millions of jobs. Didn't
happen. So, I'd say I'm a little
skeptical of Dario's story for, you
know, for two reasons. Number one,
there's a difference between in theory a
machine can do a certain task versus the
quality of the work of implementing it
in a specific workplace to a specific
set of tasks that workers do. uh and and
the human pieces of that might still be
needed to check the accuracy of the work
to check how it's represented. So I I I
think I think there's a big leap, you
know, like as there was with autonomous
vehicles where people were predicting.
So that's one reason I'm skeptical,
Dario. But of course, it also it also
avoids the whole adjustment process of
workers retraining, getting new skills,
employers investing in retraining them.
Uh so so that's why I'm I'm skeptical
that he's going to be right about that.
Um and I might be a little closer to uh
to uh the gentleman from Nvidia. Now
then there's a question. Is this time
different? Is there something about AI
that qualitatively makes it very
different from all those waves of
automation over two two and a half
centuries? And if there's something to
worry about, it's the depth of of what
AI can do and the breadth of tasks and
and the and the speed of it. The fact
that it's constantly reinventing itself
and constantly. So So in the past, a lot
of the you know, like if you got laid
off from an assembly line and a lot of
those workers never did come back, but
at least in theory, you could learn one
new task and go out in the job market.
The worry with AI is that every year so
you could you can make an adjustment
learn a new task and then AI might t
that take that over a year or two away.
So there is a possibility that AI is
qualitatively different and that the
disruption in the labor market will not
only be greater but worse for workers
that they'll always it'll be like a
treadmill and they're always running to
try to catch up and and never quite
catch up. We don't know. I remain more
optimistic than Dario. Um but on the
other hand, I don't think we should
discount the possibility of a lot of
disruption, a lot of displacement and
workers might need a lot of assistance
to adapt and and that's an interesting
thing about you know people have debated
whether whether AI will be worse for
college grads or like the digital
revolution which was worse for non-ol
grads. young college grads might face
more exposure to AI, might face more
potential substitution
uh from AI. On the other hand, my my
guess is that they will be better at
adapting to what'sever out there,
getting new skills, learning new ways.
And by the way, I think virtual training
will make new skill acquisition easier
and more accessible. But that's that'll
be the where I think college grads have
the leg up. Uh they will adapt better
even if they face more exposure. uh on
their jobs.
>> So there's there's a lot in what you
just said and I kind of want to
disentangle uh some different pieces of
it. Um the first is timing, right? Uh
Daario is saying within five years,
right? So he's saying this is coming on
fast and it's going to have a big
impact. The second thing is, you know,
he's talking about unemployment spiking.
Um and and I want to distinguish here
between AI uh short-term job impacts and
really just automation's short-term long
impact uh short-term impacts and
automation's long-term impacts. So it is
>> definitely the case right that
automation has led to job losses. Uh
that is obviously true many many many
many times. However, automation leading
to unemployment
uh in in the aggregate economy sense is
kind of a qualitatively different
phenomenon. So saying like, hey, you 500
workers whose current job is to, you
know, lift stuff off a ship and take a
bag off a ship and then put it in the
bag on the truck. Well, when we have
containers and automated, you know,
automated loaders, like that is not a
job anymore. Robots do that job. period.
Um, but you know, it also dramatically
increases the productivity of shipping
and receiving across the entire economy.
And so those job losses don't
necessarily mean macroeconomic
unemployment. In fact, they probably
lead to economic growth that creates
additional demand uh for labor. That's
right. Yeah. the the the second uh thing
I think is interesting here is um
you've talked about the distinction
between uh you know augmentation and
automation and I it's it's not obvious
to me that there is a difference so I
kind of want you to explain to me uh
what the difference is because or sorry
it's not obvious to me that there's a
meaningful difference in terms of labor
market impacts uh between automation and
augmentation. So um
a tractor is like obviously to me at
least a case of augmentation. One guy
swinging a scythe you know can harvest
so or or plowing you know with a a hand
pushed plow can plow you know so many
acres per uh day and then you give this
man a tractor with a plow on it and
suddenly he can you know uh plow 100
times that much uh acreage. And so he is
being augmented. His individual
productivity has increased a lot. But if
instead of you know him being augmented,
it was just the case that there was uh
this tractor that drove itself right
alongside him and he wasn't allowed to
touch it. Uh but it could, you know,
increase the amount of plowing per day.
It seems to me that the labor at market
impact would be uh almost identical and
that what what determines the within
sector job impacts are not augmentation
versus automation type phenomenon. They
have more to do with the elasticity of
demand in the end market. Right? We can
eat twice as much food as people 100
years ago, but we can't eat a hundred
times as much food as people 100 years
ago. By contrast, think about the
production of video. This podcast, which
we're doing as a video podcast, in the
1970s, producing this product would have
required probably at least 40 people. We
have three producers and only one of
them is involved in the technical side
of the equation. Um and so the point
being that uh the productivity for video
production has gone up massively but
consumption of video has gone up
massively and prices have gone down
massively. And so uh in one case in the
farm case the number of Americans that
are employed on farms has gone down a
lot since 100 years ago. I mean I think
it's gone down by uh more than tenfold
even though the amount of food that
Americans grow and produce has increased
by a huge huge amount. So this is a case
of like increased productivity did
destroy those jobs in that sector. But
in the economy it was fine because those
agricultural workers became
manufacturing workers or service
workers. And then in the video case, it
was fine because consumption went up by
so much that productivity didn't the
increased productivity actually means
that there are while there's nobody
there's very few people working as a
cameraman today. That's just because the
reporter you know does their own
cameraman work uh and a producer now
wears 10 hats instead of one because the
productivity is so high with all the
technological enablers. Um, so help us,
you know, untangle these different
phenomenon in the in the context of of
AI, both where we are today and where we
might be if we continue seeing
additional technological progress.
>> Well, there's a lot there.
>> Yeah. Um, you know, I think there will
be all kinds of different examples. Uh
so for instance if we go back to the uh
uh the early introduction of personal
computers or a couple dec decades later
smartphones um those barely existed and
when they existed they were very
expensive. So one answer to your
question is if the price has come way
down where is the product in its life
cycle? uh is it if it's relatively early
and way too expensive for anyone to use
it much then the elasticity of demand
might be quite high because you know
there's if the price comes down enough
for middle and workingass people to
afford it the market could explode and
and of course and that's what happened
also with Henry Ford's model
>> this uh the original cars were for
aristocrats exclusively and Henry Ford
made it a middle class
>> phenomen so so that's a case where the
product existed, but it was way too
expensive for most people to afford and
and so a lot of new product demand and
then worker demand was created when the
price goes down. A different category,
you know, so smartphones are a little
different because you had flip phones
and things like that before. Before
that, people had Blackberries, but the
smartphone was really a very new product
that was a qualitative increase in
performance and user experience.
>> Yeah. A whole different a whole
different animal really. So that's a new
product that didn't exist, you know,
replacing all the flip phones and the
Blackberries and all those things. But
the new product comes along and we're
going to see a lot of that with AI, I
believe. All kinds of all kinds of new
products, new services that don't even
exist now and a lot of new jobs. Um
there might be other cases where
on the job
you know automation will eliminate AI
will eliminate some part of what people
do but then the role of workers to
oversee the product. I mean right now
there's enormous accuracy issues with
almost everything that AI writes. I'm
guessing that might be true for a while
or whether it's relevant in a particular
context. So that kind of work. So then
you know maybe some of the people right
now who are doing the lower end writing
will do more of the editing or the
oversight things like that and and of
course in that case it'll be very
important whether the employer in those
establishments invests in retraining
them and frankly you know American
employers have always been a little more
skeptical of investing in their workers.
There's and it's gone down over time.
There's a lot of different reasons for
that. You know, I think employers have a
bias uh towards investing in training
their professional and managerial
employees, maybe their technical
workers, and much less for their non-ol
either blue collar or or pink collar
workers. Um but employers are going to
have to make judgments. Okay, who who
who is who does it make sense to
reinvest in and who not? Um, you know,
the the good thing for a lot of workers
is that if the employer has been happy
with their performance, uh, you know,
it's costly to a firm to go out and
recruit and hire and retrain somebody.
So, there might be a reason to keep a
lot of their incumbent workers and to
invest in them.
>> On the other hand, in many ways, the the
tax system through depreciation of new
investment tilts the playing field uh in
favor of automation. against incumbent
workers. So that works the other way. So
So there's these are all the variables
and the equations that you describe. All
the diff all the different ways in which
new jobs will be developed, sometimes in
the same industries, sometimes in the
same firms, sometimes in different ones
that don't even exist now. Uh and and
it's just a belief that all of that will
relieve mass unemployment. If we go back
to the unemployment issue a little bit,
this is what economists have often
called structural unemployment.
>> When you had people doing well, a full
employment economy, and then a big shock
comes uh that automates the workplace
and it it makes a lot of workers uh
obsolete at one time. That certainly
happened in the digital revolution. uh
sort of the combination of the
automation, the robotics and and what we
call the China shock uh really made
several million manufacturing workers
obsolete and they were often
concentrated in company towns and in
specific regions say of the Midwest.
>> Yeah. Like like uh you know obviously
the the rust belt didn't used to be
called the rust belt, you know, called
like the manufacturing center of
America.
>> That's right. So race, if you looked at
specific cities like Detroit or
Cleveland or or specific states, you did
see a bump up in unemployment that could
be called structural. Most economists
will tell you that historically a lot of
economists overstate structural
unemployment at the aggregate level, at
the level of the whole country. Some
people will be displaced and some, you
know, if if you're a displaced worker
above, say the age of 40, the odds of
being retrained for something new go
down. So there might be all these new
jobs being created that they might not
be the people getting. And there's been
an important new paper by uh economists
David Otter uh and Gordon Hansen. You
know, they introduced the term the China
shock and they looked at those labor
markets and then many years later they
went back and said those labor markets
have recovered but the people originally
displaced in many cases were not the
ones that got the new jobs. Did we have
mass unemployment? Was there a big jump
in structural unemployment that lasted
for any in the aggregate? The answer was
no. If you looked at certain specific
regions and specific industries, you see
a little more evidence. So, I'm guessing
it will be more like that. Now, AI is
not going to be as concentrated
uh in a particular general purpose
technology.
>> That's right. It's a general purpose
technology. It'll be spread much in some
ways. That's a good thing, right?
Because it means that, you know, it's
not like you're going to take out
Detroit uh and the Detroit economy is
going to have so much trouble. uh it's
it's spread more widely and and maybe
that means the adjustment processes will
be a little easier.
>> Yeah. So I'm I'm my sort of current
hypothesis is that uh you know I was
talking before about how technological
progress is not the only thing that
matters u but I do think it is a thing
that matters uh and matters quite a bit
especially when you you know come to
scenario planning for some of the
extremes that basically the CEO of every
AI company is predicting right now. Now,
obviously, they have an incentive
financially to to get people excited
about what's, you know, just a year or
two away when you're trying to raise
hundreds of billions of dollars to to
fund all this capex. Um, but just to be
blunt, right, uh, there's there's plenty
of folks out there like Elon Musk who
are saying that we're a handful of years
away from AI systems that are as smart
as the smartest human in every category
of intelligence. So, let's just let's
we're going to talk about that, but
let's bracket it for one second and just
say I believe that because of all the
the sort of friction uh items that we
talked about before that even if all
technological progress in AI were to
magically stop today and we were sort of
frozen at the current level of
technology, we are still nowhere near,
you know, the overall econ we are
nowhere near the the potential economic
impacts of AI because every industry
sort of has to figure out what works and
what doesn't work in adopting this
technology and which shortcomings can be
accommodated and you know um addressed
you know remediated in meaningful ways
and which ones sort of mean AI is not a
good fit for your industry. I think
there's like many years of just sort of
digesting the current state of the
technology. Um, and I my prediction is
that that would lead to job loss and it
would lead to job creation and it would
the the net effect would probably be no
additional increase in employment in the
aggregate sense of that term. But now
let's think about the more extreme
scenarios uh that some folks are talking
about like Elon Musk like Daradai like
Sam Alman the CEO of OpenAI and and the
thought experiment that comes to mind
for me is uh you know coming back again
to the transition point between uh farms
before tractors and farms after
tractors. And I think there's some
really interesting um data points here.
So in 1900
41% of the US labor force worked in
agriculture. In 1970
4% of the workforce in the United States
worked in agriculture. So a huge drop
off in people working on farms. Um now
that was fine. And the reason why it was
f I mean it was not fun for the farmers
in question. I'm sure it was a very
painful disruption but in the
macroeconomic sense it was fine because
America got much richer over that period
and um unemployment you know was not
meaningfully differentiated uh between
those two times. We were able to have
very low unemployment and growing
average incomes in in the 1970s.
However, you know, those human workers,
they retrained to go work in
manufacturing where their dextrous hands
were very useful and they retrained to
go work in the service sector where
their brains were very useful. So maybe
they weren't competitive uh at with the
tractor at pushing a plow. Um but they,
you know, were way better than what was
uh available in terms of automation and
the manufacturing and service sector.
However, there was a different labor
force in the United States that had
neither dextrous hands nor big brains,
and that was the population of horses
and mules. And so, in between 1900 and
1960, I couldn't find the number for
1970, but the number of horses and mules
that were employed in labor in 1900 was
21 million. And in 1960 it was three
million. So they lost their jobs and
they didn't get new ones. Right? And so
the the the point here basically being
that there was there was no
new job to be created for them because
they were not competitive in any way
with anything. And so I want you to just
like play out the thought experiment
here uh that Elon Musk is asking us all
to consider when he says super
intelligence is around the corner. And
it doesn't have to necessarily you don't
even have to agree with him that it's
around the corner. Let's just say it's
going to happen sometime in the next 100
years.
What does you know your economic theory
and your body of experience tell you?
How does this story change as AI's
capabilities get more and more extreme
far beyond where we are today? Um, and
you start approaching or surpassing
human level intelligence in every
category of intelligence. Well, I um I I
love the example of the horses and mules
versus humans and and and luck lucky for
us humans, we are different from the
horses and mules uh along a couple of
key dimensions. Number one, uh there's a
whole lot more dimensions to what we can
do with our hands, with our brains. Um
you know, horses and mules could only do
one thing pretty much. And once you
replace that, and of course, they didn't
have the ability to adapt. And humans
have the ability, you can start off
being a substitute, then then you can
learn some new skills, new tasks, and
become a compliment. Now, it might take
some real adjustment. you know, in your
story about agriculture versus
manufacturing. First of all, a lot of
those people had to move to cities uh
from the countryside, that alone took a
lot of time. And you know, there's
always this question of I I'll go back
to what I said before about when an area
recovers from a big shock. Is it the
people who are displaced who get the new
jobs? It might be their kids. It might
be only their kids that those kids went
to college, etc. So some people take a
lasting
>> people who moved to that area. Right.
>> That's right. That's right. So you know
some people take a lasting hit, other
people I think figure out how to adapt.
I think the younger you are the better
chance you have of adapting. Maybe
having a strong basic level of skills
also means you can adapt to a lot of
different tasks and things. But then let
me address the the thing about you know
what will if the machines are smarter
than us on every single dimension and
historically every bit of automation
like like I remember when calculators
you know when I was in high school and
calculators came out and again better at
math than me
>> they were way better you know uh and and
and math teachers were always wrestling
with do I still need to teach some of
this stuff if you can press a button on
a calculator. Um so it was smart on
those particular dimensions but many
many other dimensions it was not smarter
than us. So if Elon Musk is saying,
well, the machines are going to be
smarter than us on almost everything,
I'm skeptical of that. And and you know,
I think that there will remain something
about humanness
uh and and human centered
uh abilities and tasks that will remain
qualitatively different from a from a
machine for a long time. You know, I
think uh first of all, in terms of
exercising judgment, looking at all of
the relevant context when a judgment is
made,
I think AI over time will be able to
look at more and more of those factors,
but will it have the judgment to know
how much weight to put on something? And
maybe this context is different than
maybe maybe in my town it's a different
context than in a a different location
or a different uh city or state. You
know, there's so many factors. I think
humans will just be better at that.
Anything involved in human emotion and
and I know I know that AI, you know,
people are talking about people dating
their their AI machines and, you know,
>> having them as their therapists and
their emotional support companions.
>> Yeah. You know, I I just got to believe
that at the end of the day, there is
something about humanness that will
distinguish it and continue to
distinguish it. And even the knowledge
that it might be a machine talking to
you in one case, uh maybe even a machine
that that can do sex in some sense, but
the knowledge that it's not a real
person on the other end, I I think will
will change the human experience and and
will continue to give human beings a leg
up.
>> So, I think I think there's there's if I
could disentangle your argument, there's
there's two essential claims that you're
making. Um, one is that I mean basically
you're saying humans have advantages
over machines that are likely to endure.
And I'm oversimplifying here, but you
can you can put those into two
categories. Arbitrary advantages and
actual advantages. So what I mean by
arbitrary advantages is um Magnus
Carlson is not the best chess player on
earth. He is the best human chess player
on earth. He he cannot beat his own
phone right at chess ever. He would lose
a thousand to zero. Um but his phone
does not have an awesome you know
ability to attract to fill stadiums and
you know millions of YouTube viewers to
watch you know the phone play chess.
There is only a market for watching
humans play chess. There is essentially
no market for watching AI play chess.
Now that is an arbitrary preference but
it is clearly a real one. Right? And so
uh throughout the throughout the
economy, this type of phenomenon might
show up again and again and again in
terms of customer support
representatives or you know do I want to
get my massage from a robo massage thing
or do I want to have a human or do I
want to have an AI therapist or do I
want to have a human therapist blah blah
blah blah you can imagine that this
arbitrary preference for humanness will
be a enduring economic advantage with
with meaningful outcomes. And then the
second thing is the nonarbitrary
advantages. So you're asserting that
machines will be fundamentally uncapable
not just next year but maybe even a
hundred years from now. They will
continue to be inferior to humans in
delivering uh emotional tied um services
basically or their their overall
judgment of weaving together all aspects
of their intelligence. You're asserting
that even a 100 years from now, no
matter how much technological progress
we make, the the sort of 2 kg of gray
matter inside my skull will be a
superior intelligence device. Uh, do I
understand you correctly?
>> Yes. Uh, I think that's right. Now, can
I prove that? No. Uh, it it's what my
gut is telling me. Um, and it might be
it might be that a big chunk of what
workers do today, the machines will be
better at and that essential humanness
that I think makes us unique. Um, again,
it might be involved in all kinds of new
job categories that don't exist today.
But, you know, there's so many examples.
You know, um, you know, you mentioned
the sports example.
I'm I'm sort of a fanatical follower of
the Los Angeles Dodgers even though I
grew up in New Jersey because Sandy
Kofax was my hero as a kid. Now, one can
imagine a set of robots outperforming
the Dodgers or all these other teams. Am
I going to get excited to watch them? Of
course not, you know.
>> Yeah, I might watch that once, right?
I'm not going to watch that three times.
>> Exactly. Exactly. So, you know, I can
imagine some current jobs that I just
can't imagine a machine really replacing
a person and creating the same demand or
maybe all kinds of new functions that
will people will come up with as new
products get created and as new things
are needed and I think it's going to be
some combination of that that will mean
that humans will not become completely
obsolete in the long run as well as the
short run.
>> Yeah. So I I'll just uh state and uh
that I I disagree with you uh that that
in the long term that humans are going
to have some kind of uh enduring
advantage, right? I think a 100 years
from now, unless we get awesome brain
implants that make us smarter, uh I
would expect that the computers are
better at us in in everything except for
the arbitrary preferences where I
certainly agree with you, right? that
people might just uh like like a robot
is not eligible to apply for the job of
my wife. My wife has already taken that
job and I'm not taking applications
right for for a new job no matter how
compelling the robots, you know, pitch
is. Um okay, so now let's shift uh gears
and and talk about some of the policy uh
parts of this story. So you were one of
40 leading economists who signed a
letter to the current labor secretary uh
Chavez Durmer calling for better data on
AI's impact. So we've been speculating a
lot here and part of the reason why
we're speculating is the data is
inadequate and and the letter says quote
we are concerned the government is not
adequately prepared for the collection
of highquality economic data that will
inform policy to address the workforce
issues AI creates. So what data is the
government currently collecting and and
where do these efforts fall short you
know in your understanding in terms of
the impact on AI of AI rather?
>> Most of the labor market data collected
well there there's different kinds of
data there's surveys uh and then there's
administrative data that already exist.
So for instance a lot of the survey data
come from the Bureau of Labor Statistics
in the department of labor or from the
department
>> which is a great agency that does
phenomenal work. I just want to say
>> I think it is it's it's uh its
reputation has been unfairly
sullied in in the last bunch of days. Um
but that's where a lot of the survey
data come from. And then there are these
administrative data like every quarter
employers if their workers are covered
by unemployment insurance they have to
fill out data and send it to their state
agencies for unemployment insurance
coverage. And that's become a very
important source of data. Um so there's
survey data, there's administrative
data, and of course the third data is
stuff that gets scraped from the
internet, you know, big data of of
different kinds. Um you know, I think
all of them need to adjust. All of them
have some potential. Um but all of them
will need adjustment. the surveys will
simply have to ask all kinds of
questions that they don't ask now about
what do you do in your job and are you
using some program with AI uh in the
work you do um I think the
administrative data uh a lot of states
are linking their quarterly earnings
data to their state education data so
you might be able to you might be able
to follow a worker who studied AI in
college look at the firm that employs
them later and then what happens to
those workers versus other workers who
have worked at that firm previously. So
you can see you know who
>> that's something the government does not
do now but you you think would give
policy makers information they should
want and do need of start tracking this
kind of thing. Yeah, the capability is
there and of course the new data there's
all kinds of new ways of collecting
these data uh that will come up and and
you know and already in the private
sector you know we have companies that
collect job vacancy statistics that
collect people's resumes um one can
imagine public private partnerships that
make those data more useful to people
like me policy you know researchers and
policy analysts so we definitely need
new data that don't exist. Some of them
you can exist, you can tweak existing
sources of data and in other cases maybe
all kinds of new sources will come along
that we're not even aware of. But we
need it. We need all those things.
>> I I find that uh completely persuasive.
Um, so you uh we're we're we're coming
up on on time here and I want to be
respectful of your time, but you also
recently co-authored a white paper uh
titled Proactively Developing and
Assisting the Workforce in the Age of
AI, which included a range of policy
recommendations, and I should mention
you, you know, you had a lot of
co-authors on this piece, but can you
just give us an overview of the paper
and some of its main recommendations?
Well, the paper, you know, we had about
15 people. So, people bought a lot of
different expertise that no one of us
would have had. And first of all, the
paper just reviewed the whole issue of
AI capabilities. You know, what's the
best that AI can do now, 5 years from
now, 10 years from now. What is the
evidence to date number one on
productivity growth and number two on
employment and wages and disemployment?
And again, recognizing that it's very,
very early to make any of those
judgments. And then we had you know what
are the relevant policies. Um the
section that I had you know one of the
one of the one of the sections was on
what we just talked about new data and
new research. Uh I had a lot of input
into the section on education and
training. Uh you know that's that's my
interest and expertise area. So I
broadly think of sort of three big
buckets. Um one is kind of basic K
through 12 education higher education.
and it's like the foundation that
everybody gets before they enter the
labor market.
The second bucket is stuff that happens
on the job. So if AI takes over
someone's tasks, will the employer
retrain that worker for a new task, will
they let them go? And then of course the
third bucket is if people do get
displaced or if they think a
displacement is coming uh all kinds of
adaptations uh that will help them
retrain maybe at a community college
something like lifelong learning
accounts maybe uh automation adjustment
system that's modeled after a program
called train adjustment assistance all
the things that people will need if in
fact they they see displacement coming
or or or they get displaced. So in each
of those areas, you know, the report
talks about things government can do to
make those kinds of education and
training more complimentary with the AI
out of the starting blocks.
>> Uh to nudge, incentivize, assist
employers to take their current
incumbent workers seriously. You know,
maybe like maybe you could subsidize
retraining. Uh you could even tax uh
worker displacement although that didn't
make it into the report because it's
more controversial and the evidence base
is more limited. Um there's all kinds of
ways in which government can do each of
those things. uh government can provide
guidelines uh and a lot of this happens
at the state level, you know, for their
K through 12 systems, their career and
teched and their high schools, their
public community colleges and
universities, guidelines for how they
should be adjusting the curricula uh in
response to AI. And of course, a lot of
that's going to involve interactions
between the education institutions and
the uh business community to get a sense
of what's coming down the road and how
to prepare people for that. So, there's
things you can do in all three of those
buckets. There's a whole area a lot of
people right now are talking about. If
in fact it's true that young workers,
young college grads are going to have
trouble getting entrylevel jobs and
gaining that work experience, maybe we
really need to make a push around
work-based learning. uh internships,
apprenticeships, maybe they will play a
more important role for getting workers
that that work.
>> The thesis the thesis being right now
that uh entrylevel jobs, you know,
basically allow you to do a certain
category of work and you're partly
compensated in dollars and you're partly
compensated in terms of training. And if
the AI replaces that entry- level work,
then nobody is giving you that training
um and nobody's giving you those
dollars. And so you might need an a new
system that incentivizes companies or
other organizations to uh provide the
training that can help workers make the
jump from university to well what
whatever the new entry level will be
which is not the current you know sort
of state of what entry level.
>> That's exactly right. I mean labor
economists have known for quite a while
that that sort of first 5 to 10 years in
the job market right after one complete
schooling is a very important period for
all the reasons that you just said. you
know, you learn all kinds of new tasks
and you develop a track record by which
employers can judge you. And many times
if you really want to make progress, you
don't stay in the same job, you shift to
the same job in a different company,
maybe to a different job. And if AI
makes all of that harder for a young
graduate to obtain, it would be good to
have an alternative mechanism like
apprenticeships or internships maybe to
to fill that. So, um I want to ask about
like the the specifically the support
for displaced workers because I feel
like these programs kind of have a bad
reputation in policy circles right now
because it was one of the great thesis
for why the China shock would not be so
shocking. Um I think in the 1990s
uh part of the the sort of argument to
liberalize trade regimes was saying yes
there will be displaced workers. Yes,
the textile workers of North Carolina
are going to be devastated, but the
federal government is going to dump a
bunch of money into North Carolina to
retrain these workers to work in some
other industry that is not textile
manufacturing, which is going to go to
low-wage countries. And there's nothing
really to be done about it. And I, you
know, you're a labor economist. You know
100 times more about this than I do. And
this is even your area of expertise
within labor economics. But but my sense
is that there's a kind of generalized
dissatisfaction with the average amount
of impact that these retraining uh
programs have for displaced workers
compared to you know the marketing
slogans of the policy in the 1990s. So
you know as as you think about it like
are there any salient examples where
workforce displacement programs and
retraining programs like knocked it out
of the park? What does this look like
when it goes right? Well, um it's a
tougher job, uh in a lot of ways than
say a training program for disadvantaged
young people. Uh you're talking about a
lot of people now who might be in their
40s, their 50s. Much hard to retrain at
that point. Where they live might be a
depressed region. The new jobs, they
might have to move somewhere else. At
that age, people are more
>> Yeah. You have you have kids, you got
kids, and there's That's right.
when you're that's right and of course
now the housing market might be
complicating that because the places
with robust labor markets are very
expensive. So, so it's a hard, you know,
the jobs have to be available, uh, and
the people getting displaced have to
have both the interest and the ability
to get into those new trading programs.
And, and that's a lot to ask. And
historically, the track record has been
worse. But there, but there have been
some uh like like trade adjustment
assistance. Um, that's this program
where you have to be certified that you
lost your job to imports to get and what
you get is living money over and above
unemployment insurance plus extra
training money. Now, for a long time it
looked like that program was a failure.
Uh, but eventually it adapted and and
the most and and of course the program
didn't get reauthorized in 2022. a
little bit unfortunate, but the last bit
of research uh from Ben Heyman at the
New York Fed said it was actually a much
more successful program than it had been
previously. Yeah. And
>> so the uh the bad reputation is perhaps
undeserved.
>> Uh well, in its current form, it might
have been more deserved in some of its
earlier forms. um you know, and he had a
number something like uh every worker
who goes through the programs gets a
$50,000 benefit over the next 5 to 10
years, which is a pretty good rate of
return. Uh and that that's even before
you adjust for inflation. Um so so there
are programs you know there's another
good study of of uh unemployed workers
uh in the state of Washington who went
to community college um and Lou Jacobson
and and a few and Loland and Sullivan
did that paper and they found that it
was it wasn't spectacular training but
it was pretty good. You know these
workers got on average 10 15% bumps.
Now, there weren't a lot of older
workers getting that retraining, but we
do have some some examples of places and
and and part of the problem is you have
these spectacular training programs out
there today like PCOLAS uh and Jewish
vocational services and, you know, often
in very specific industries. The problem
is, you know, they're awesome for a
small number of people who get to train.
>> There's awesome micro programs. There's
not awesome macro programs. Is that
fair?
>> That's right. That's right. I I think a
those programs are expensive. B they
really demand people who are very ready
to do technical work and technical
training. That's not true of anybody. So
you don't, as you said, you don't find
spectacular programs at a more macro
level. But you look at what the best
community colleges are doing in the
country and the ones that have figured
out which how to partner with local
industry, they're pretty good. They're
pretty good of people. But again, if
you're a 45 year old, it may not be for
you and it may not solve your problem.
But maybe if you're 30 or 35, a little
more mobile, uh it might be better.
>> Amazing. Well, Harry, we've covered a
ton of ground. I want to thank you so
much for for coming on the podcast and
sharing your expertise uh from this
incredibly wide-ranging conversation.
You really uh held up to some some wild
speculation on my part, and I am
grateful for that. Um, if if uh folks
want to follow more of your work, how
can they find you?
>> Uh, you can go to my website at
Georgetown University. Just uh Google me
uh and and you'll get links to my to my
Brookings papers, to my my Georgetown
papers, etc. Uh, and I welcome people to
do that and and thanks to you, Greg, for
having me on. It was a really fun and
stimulating conversation. Thank you. All
right. Well, that does it for this
episode of the AI Policy Podcast. Uh,
we'll be back soon and look forward to
it. Thanks. Thank you.
Thanks for listening to this episode of
the AI Policy Podcast. If you like what
you heard, there's an easy way for you
to help us. Please give us a five-star
review on your favorite podcast platform
and subscribe and tell your friends. It
really helps when you spread the word.
This podcast was produced by Sarah
Baker, Satie McCulla, and Matt Mann. See
you next time.
