Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you now
recognize my voice. I mean, I know it.
It's always Rosie here. And as I've said
many, many, many times, this is just a
group of students and young
professionals who are very interested in
anything that has to do with technology.
And yes, today especially, it's
regulation. And today is a special day
because this is the one of the episodes
of the Ashunder 24 hours campaign in
which we tend we try to spread the word
about the dangers that children and
young adults are exposed to in the tech
and in the digital space. So today I'm
joined by my colleague and friend Jako.
Hi Jako. Hello Rosie and thank you very
much for this wonderful job that you're
doing together with Sophie too and with
our guest. So thank you very much. I'm h
super happy to join you today. I'm very
happy to see you because today we are
interviewing someone from a bit farther
away than usual. Hello Monique Bruceley.
It's such a pleasure to see you. Thank
you so much for having me. So I have to
ask you first of all what made you say
yes to this interview? because like I I
am I am really impressed and like
obviously moved from from the fact that
you decided to join us today. But like
most importantly,
why are you here in general? What led
you to this amazing career that you've
had? And um what are the next steps for
the future? Yeah, I mean uh the podcast
I do whatever Laura Marquez Garrett
tells me to do.
She she vouched for you, but um also
just you've been doing a great job on
LinkedIn. Um, so joking aside, uh, yeah,
really happy to be here. Um, and was
thrilled to be asked. So, um, yeah, so
I'm a state representative in Vermont.
Um, so I represent three kind of like
small rural towns, um, where I live. Um,
and there's 150 uh, fellow House members
members um, in Vermont and then there's
30 senators. Um, and so we regulate
everything at the like the state level.
Um, and I got started. I did not want to
be in politics. Um I thought it was
gross.
I mean some aspects I do think are gross
still, but um uh I my local rep um
wanted to run for Secretary of State.
Um, and I had already been doing like I
was my career is in tech, but all of my
free time was volunteering for uh local
nonprofit boards and volunteering for my
town um in the municipality
um in the town government. And so I was
on probably two dozen different kind of
like boards that were both local and
then regional and then um statewide um
in anything from like our local um
health clinic to our library to our like
conservation like preserving forests um
to a lot of economic and community
development different um different
community and economic development
groups. Um, so it made it made sense and
I'd also turned a local retail store
into a community center like co-working
space. Um, so people generally were
already coming to me when they needed
help with different connections to
different government features and asking
for advice on on things locally. Um, so
uh yeah, I couldn't say no. Now let's
say that many of our listeners probably
never visited Vermont, me included
actually. Can you give us a picture of
what makes your state unique and what
makes you so committed to help your
community thrive? Yeah, so it's really
small. So situated in between um with
like a sister state of New Hampshire um
it's like a upside down mirror of New
Hampshire. Uh and then we're between New
York and Maine and north of
Massachusetts. in New England. Um and um
really uh there's a although there's a
few what we call cities um nationally
they're not actually considered cities
cuz the population of the biggest town
is like 40,000 people. Um and uh then it
is so you have entirely rural states. I
mean some of my towns are the town I
live in is a little under 3,000 people.
Um, but some of my towns are like 600
people. Um, so you've got a wide range
of kind of towns there. And then, um,
very purple as far as like generally
like nationally for politics, Vermont
goes very blue and Democratic um, with
Bernie Sanders like everybody knows. Um,
and then uh, uh, but then otherwise
we're very kind of like purple and
skewed very um, evenly uh, in a lot of
ways. um Republican and Democrat and
then also progressive and uh and
independent um as well. Um we are very
agrarian. Um so and our legislative
cycle is still based on an agrarian
calendar because of farmers. Um and
uh so yeah I guess a lot of people
during co ended up moving here to work
remotely. Um, so it's an like generally
there's a lot of people who have like
second homes or like vacation homes but
also are now like working remotely
because of COVID. Um, and it's just a it
was very like uh as
co I can't even imagine living in like a
city in Vermont. We were like out
running in the woods and like playing in
the water and stuff like that. So
generally like it's such a nice place to
just be um because it's very green and
very forested and um really small
communities that tend to get together um
in the summer and have events and things
like that. So it's an aquarian state but
you were in tech. Yeah. Yeah.
Yes. Uh I so yeah I I mean so most I
actually started in high school. Um I
the network administrator of the time um
he did not want to one I needed like
something to do um and he was kind of
like a mentor to me and he did not want
to be climbing up ladders uh into our
ceilings when I was in high school um
and like lugging around computers and
things. So I actually wired my whole
high school um that was kind of one of
the first tech things I did um for for
internet um and installed all our
computers and things like that. Um so I
was the run one running up and down the
ladders and our ceilings. Um and then
from then it was a lot of like database
um design and management, web design, um
network support and network
administration. So helping people with
computers, fixing physically fixing
computers um and then uh a lot of
different software roles um from uh
customer support and integrating
different systems into it. Um I worked
for a software company in Seattle and so
it was we were doing software as a
service for big um universities and so I
ended up having over the course of like
14 years a lot of different um roles um
from uh customer support and like
integrating different systems and moving
over data um from students and that kind
of stuff and uh attaching different
payment processors and functionality and
then designing. I had been there long
enough towards the end that I was kind
of a liazison between all the different
teams like sales and engineering and
customer support and um that kind of
stuff and was like leading the overhaul
of the the whole software. Um and then I
yeah I went out to Seattle for grad
school and was working remotely and then
I ended up moving back to Vermont and
like stayed here.
Going forward let's talk about safety in
the digital space. what the main focus
of your policy making efforts in that
regard? Why is that? Do you feel
supported by your voters in this
efforts?
Yeah. Um yeah, so I just kind of
stumbled into uh consumer protection um
which like tech kind of safety falls
under. Um I had uh because of all my
volunteer work, I had been put on the
commerce and economic development
committee. Um but then we very quickly
in my first year, so I'm in my third
year, second term. Um in my uh first
year, we started dealing with earned
wage access, which is basically a
digital payday loan uh which we had
prohibited uh in Vermont. And so I was
curious why we were kind of like making
an exception for a digital version of
something that we outlawed more or less.
Um and then we had data privacy. Um and
so in in these kind of like I had going
into the building like on the um day we
had elections, there was a former
senator who was like waiting outside and
he said like the the one piece of advice
he would give is to like find a passion
area and like own that passion area and
just try to like dig in as much as
possible. Um so that has been like tech
um for me the kind of consumer
protection tech space. Um,
and I think like I I am somebody who
when I was younger uh I my uncle in
particular was somebody um one of my
uncles was he would you know he was
really privacy aware. I would I would
have called him like paranoid when I was
a kid. Um he was always creating his own
programs to make sure to like turn off
JavaScript and all this kind of stuff.
Uh, and I was like, you know, uh, you
know, when Facebook and stuff came out,
I was in, that was my first freshman in
college. Um, and I was like, oh, we're
just like trading the use of these
softwares for our data, and it's fine.
Um, now I'm like, ah, you stupid idiot.
But um uh I yeah I guess the the more I
learned about how that actually works
and where data is coming from and is how
it is being sold uh without us um
realizing it um just all the different
uses and the uses and the players in the
space. Um just the more I learned the
more I was like oh we have to actually
we have to do something to protect
people. Um and not not only adults and
also elders who are you know uh also
prone to click that random text message
that they get that says they owe money
on their post office box or uh speeding
tickets and things like that. Um but
also kids. So kids as you said at the
beginning just always on uh devices all
the time. Um, and um, then also with
parents not being able to like be in
those spaces all the time. Like I know
as a kid, like I was very early on,
probably 10 or something in chat rooms
like all the time, like back from like
MSN, Yahoo chats. Luckily, nothing bad
ever happened, but it could have. It
very easily could have. Uh, and so I
can't even imagine like I was I had
pretty limited screen time and my
parents were usually around facilitating
that. Um, and but on personal devices
where kids could have it in their room
without any parent paying attention. Um,
and that shouldn't be on the parent.
Like it should be that these devices are
something that kids can use that aren't
uh leading them to be addicted and have
suicidal ideiation and eating disorders
and all kinds of stuff. Um so that the
more I learn the more terrified I am
that this is a space where uh in general
companies are uh have an unsafe product
that is addicting that very much follows
the playbook of like tobacco or opioids
or you know any of that type of stuff.
Um and yeah I guess I feel like we
that's wrong. I guess at a fundamental
level uh it is wrong and um and it is
not on uh the people to try to you know
restrict their phone use or things like
that like these products are
specifically
um tailored on psychological methods to
addict people. Um and so uh just as we
regulate any type of drug I think we
also have to look at regulating software
like that.
Do do the people in Vermont understand
this problem? Because I feel like it's a
huge problem at least in Europe like a
lot of people like yeah okay GDPR like
it was kind of imposed on us like what
do we care why do we have to consent to
everything the notices are so long just
let me let me go on this website leave
me alone like do you feel like people
support you in in this campaign
it's really it varies so when it comes
to general data privacy for everyone I
would say especially with what's going
on at the federal level right now uh how
we're seeing all of our data, you know,
uh, combined. It's in the news more
often that all of our data federally is
being combined and then used potentially
against us. Um, most likely against us.
Um, and so people are starting to like
get it. Um, they do more quickly
understand, uh, especially parents, uh,
more quickly grasp the data privacy
aspect of like kids software for sure.
um and that being used again to addict
kids because they're trying to manage it
um at varying levels of success of
having their kids understand uh limited
screen time and who they're talking to
and kind of what they're doing, what
information they're giving to people
online. Um, so I think that one has been
I I sometimes have uh I sometimes
struggle with the I often struggle with
the tech bills that are focused on a
specific population like kids because I
think it's so easy to do this like
virtual signal virtual virtue signaling
sorry
um and
I really wanted to be careful of that
and in this way like I really dug into
my build to make sure I was functionally
actually able to accomplish accomplish
something. Um, and so that the nice
thing about this is like it is a topic
that people want to talk about. So there
is like an education aspect there that
can bully you over into talking about
general data privacy aspects um for
everyone.
And if we look at the challenges, I mean
this is a difficult campaign of course
because we know the big techs and and we
know how much they love having our data
and using it as they please. Um from a
political and human perspective like
which type of challenges and obstacles
have you been encountering and how bad
have they been affecting your campaign
and your well-being even?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean it gets um it has
been uh my second year in particular
psychologically it was like it was
really intense um because the the amount
of money being spent to battle these
bills um and uh kill these bills uh is
really intense and uh we kind of set me
up so that um you know lobbying efforts
like come in and um there's a whole mix
a range of things that are happening
like one you have national national
people who are well known in the space
who just appear in your cafeteria
talking to your fellow members telling
them that like your bill is uh never
going to work, you're going to kill the
economy, like all this kind of stuff.
That in itself is like one thing. The
the harder thing uh in a lot of ways is
the lobbying that happens behind the
scenes that people don't necessarily see
in mass. So, I've gotten screenshots of
like newsletters that people have gotten
as small business owners that said like,
"This rep is trying to kill the
economy." Um, and like, "Is your
business going to be affected? Are you
worried? You should be scared." Like all
this stuff. So then I'm like I'm
fielding a lot of like just fear
mongering um at the same time where
which is hard because you have all these
like trusted kind of like trade
associations that small businesses are a
member of and then they are being told
to be afraid of this legislation and
they're doing that and the members of
the trade association include the big
guys like Google. Um, and so you often
have like I have I have a small
business, so I've gotten emails from
Google that says like, "Pay attention to
what's happening in your state house.
This rep is going to kill it's going to
kill your business." Um, and uh, so I
understand small businesses being
worried because again, this is like
trusted resources that they they feel
like they rely on to do business. Um
what nobody is like telling them is how
uh unlevel the playing field is against
the big tech that is convincing them
that they must use their products and
services in order to like survive. So
there's just kind of this like I guess
those are two pieces of
um one you're like battling these people
who have a ton of money and a ton of
expertise coming in to tell everybody um
you're wrong about something and then
you have this like fear-mongering where
they're freaking out businesses and I'm
somebody who has always um taught a lot
of classes to support small businesses
have taken on uh roles like during co I
did business counseling Um, and so I
want businesses to feel safe. I want
them to use the internet. Um, but trying
to convince them that they're being
taken advantage of is like a difficult
task in of itself. Um, and then you also
just have a lot of like local lobbyists
that have a a range of conflicts of
interest where they'll say that they're
talking to you for one client for one
reason, asking for one specific kind of
like regulation like amendment, but
really if you dig in, sometimes they're
not actually you can tell they're not
actually representing that client. Um,
so there's this whole kind of like
psychological game of not only having
people come at you and telling you
you're wrong and you're going to break
everything, but also there's this like
undermining of you don't you can't
actually necessarily
trust any information you're getting at
any given time. It's a it's a very toxic
kind of environment to be in where you
have to trust everybody but you can't
actually trust like anyone. So um yeah
um yeah and what kind of impact does a
change in legislature environment bear
in comparison to digital safety in the
US
like the federal like state versus
federal is that yeah so I mean so the
thing that's interesting is when I like
came into the space and I think
generally like a talking point that both
at like people who from civil society
like advocates and like industry share
generally is that there should be some
kind of like federal level privacy
protections and and youth protections um
specifically and but at the same time
our federal government is not moving
fast enough. It is it was even heavier
you know lobbyed than state level stuff.
So I also worry about at this point like
what will go into a federal law? Will it
be so much weaker than what we can
accomplish at the states? And will it
also preempt like make it so that the
state laws can't actually like continue
to evolve at a small at a like a smaller
level? Um, and at the same time I've
seen, you know, like uh Amazon and
Facebook and a bunch of other companies
at a very coincidental time last year,
there was all this like thing these
articles online where it's like we're
we're doing better with our health data
and like we're making it safer and we're
not going to we're going to stop
collecting certain information. And
that's fascinating because they're like
putting this messaging out. uh but it
was like coincidentally when the the
Washington state my health my data law
was going into effect. So it was a very
concrete example where like we're often
told that you know Vermont's too small.
It's not going to affect anything. It
can't change big companies. But you see
that example in one state where they did
a health law, privacy law with a private
right of actions, the ability for
individuals to sue and the big tech
companies actually did have to change
what they were doing for everyone. Um,
and so I think like I the one thing I
have figured out is that Vermont can
actually have an impact and and even my
my like the law that I you know wrote uh
last session that got vetoed and then I
was working all summer with different
people uh and I had a draft. I've gone
to like different working groups with
other state legislators and they're
like, "Oh, do you want to read my
privacy bill?" And I flipped through and
I'm like, "Oh, this is this is my
privacy bill." Um so uh it's it's the
the amount of which like I copy other
states and they copy um us um is also
like kind of very uh one it is very
unifying in that we can all kind of like
work together to pass stronger
regulations. At the same time, it's also
super risky um because we can also end
up copying. If any of us weaken the law,
then we can also set a precedent for
like weaker um regulations.
And in in terms of like how you feel the
position of Vermont compared to the
other to the rest of United States, do
you feel like the new administration is
hindering your progress
depending on your definition of progress
of course and or or do you think that
they are allowing for you to have a much
broader kind of autonomy in deciding
where Vermont stands? Yeah. No, I mean
this this administration in particular
um uh is really feeling very dangerous.
uh I mean in so many ways but when it
comes to uh data privacy regulation and
artificial intelligence regulation I
mean it is clear like um what we are
seeing right now this like quote unquote
big beautiful bill uh had a hidden
provision in there to uh make it so that
states can't um can't basically pass and
regulate artificial intelligence for the
next 10 years. Um, and they actually
weakened they like broadened it even
more in the Senate version. So that
interpretations that I've been reading
say that like anything that gets in the
way of artificial intelligence kind of
like use uh is not okay. Which means
that most of the privacy laws and tech
laws in general would in some way uh you
know inhibit could be seen as inhibiting
artificial intelligence um use and
deployments. Um, so that we're all very
worried about that um because that could
make it so that states have zero power
for the next decade uh to protect our
citizens.
Wow, that's that's crazy. That
moratorium thing. I mean um we've
covered that with with Ashan 24 hours
and we were like
this is so
incredible that something that binding
can be just you know squeezed into a
bill and I mean everything is there and
you know there are like funds for
helping I don't know pensioners at the
same time and and something that says
you cannot make law to regulate AI when
literally a couple of months ago a child
has died because of a chatbot gone
wrong. Yeah. So, it's it's powerful to
read it from from this side of the pond
as you as you guys and they I mean they
also are attaching it to what 500
million like they're attaching it to a
big chunk of money. Uh, and I watched
one of the interviews of um, Adam, I
think it was Adam Theurer, where it was
like, uh, are are is this money going to
go into private contracts to, uh, buy AI
products? And basically, it was like,
yes, uh, the government needs to buy
more AI products, and it should buy a
lot of like a lot of them. Um, and
should give its money to all of the big
guys. Uh, it was just kind of
horrifying. So, it's like like basically
federal uh federal government should
have as many contracts with with private
artificial intelligence like software
producers as possible and then uh the
states should stay out of the way of
having anything to do with making sure
that people are protected and not harmed
by those contracts.
Oh, it's it's incredible. And I mean we
admire you for for standing up to it
because I mean when you see a bill of
that as I said proportion you're like
maybe I should shut up like
even even on our side we were like shall
we publish this or not. So I I I wow um
incredible what what you do and um we
like seeing Vermont going through that.
There was um a successful bill if I'm
not mistaken a bit less than a couple of
weeks ago. Yeah. So we had uh so um uh
online safety for for minors. um so 18
and younger. Um and so it passed the
House and the Senate uh both with good
healthy kind of like veto override um
votes uh and the governor. So it went to
the governor on Friday um so he has
until I think the end of day Friday um
to either veto it, sign it or or if he
does nothing then it passes.
We suggest all of our listeners to read
this small but beautiful bill. I can
assure you it's small but very
beautiful.
And in that light thinking about things
that they can read or listen to or
perhaps watch movies or whatever. Do you
have any suggestions to help our
listeners understand a bit better? Maybe
something about Vermont or in general
something about why privacy and consumer
rights are important. Yeah, I mean uh I
mean locally uh VT Digger um and Vermont
Public have been so our uh local
statewide kind of like political the
newspaper like online media that watches
the politics. Um it always has like a
really good kind of following if you're
interested in Vermont politics. Um, and
then, um, I really like one of the books
that I read that I still think is like
one of the just, uh, down to- earthth
kind of like books about why priv why
why privacy matters is why privacy
matters by Neil Richards. Um, I just
think it's a really approachable, um,
book. Um, and then, um, recently people
have been, uh, telling me to I have not
done it yet, uh, but I want to also go
through Carrie Parker's, um, Firewalls
Don't Stop Dragons series.
Yeah, that's a powerful one. And we
advise everyone to to give it a look
because it's um, it's crazy. It's you're
going to be like looking behind your
back every 3 seconds like, "Oh my god,
oh my god." Yeah. It's It's one of
those, you know, cover your camera
because they could be looking at you.
That kind of Yeah. Yeah. totally.
Absolutely. Okay. Well, before I keep on
talking and Jakamo tells me off because
this has happened.
I will thank you so much Monique
Priestley for joining us today. It's
been such a pleasure legal for tech and
as I've said, thank you for helping us
with a hashtag under 24 hours. Your your
support is being really really precious.
Yeah. No, thank you so much. And I will
actually just add so I uh I can't do any
of this work without the support of a
lot of people all over the country and
all over the world honestly um because I
am I am learning these like privacy
regulations as I'm going. Um so I would
just say like if if anybody wants to
reach out whether it's on LinkedIn is
like an easy way to get me. Um, I also
have um priestly vt p r i s t uh le ey
vt uh.com and I like also post all my
bills and things there so people can
follow along. But I just would encourage
um it is helpful for me to connect with
people who uh want to help in this
space. They will find the link to your
website in the show notes. I promise.
And yes, that said guys, please reach
out to Monique as well for on our
behalf. And this was all from Legal for
Tech the podcast. I'm thanking my
colleague Jako. Thanks Jako for joining
us. Thank you Rosie and Monique. And see
you next episode.
They will cut it out. I'm just trying to
I've been on a few of these where
they're like they don't move for like 30
seconds.
It's always difficult to find the button
of like stop.
