Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice here is always Rosie.
And as I've said many many times, we are
just a group of students and young
professionals who are here to speak
about everything that has to do with
technology and yes, it's regulation. And
I'm super happy today because we are
starting something very important which
is season two. And I know that you can
see me. So now I'm going to move my
hands even more because I'm also pushed
in that direction. Um, so that said, we
have new friends, old friends.
Today we have a very special friend um
and he was here on the podcast
beforehand. So I'm really really happy
to um actually introduce him again to
you. His name is Yost Hitson and he
comes from the Netherlands. Hello Yost.
Great to see you today.
>> Rosie, thank you for uh this wonderful
introduction and awesome pronunciation.
I mean this is uh yeah you are you're
maybe partly Dutch. Is that uh one of
the reasons? No,
>> no. I'm Italian 100% as Italian 100%
is my co-host today, which I'm really
really happy to welcome here because
he's a great friend and also he's a
great great great co-host. Hello,
Jakamo. Great to see you again.
>> Hi, Rosie. Very, very nice words to to
many too many because you're also a
great host. And hi, Yost. Uh it's nice
to see you again even if I wasn't there
but uh it's really nice to meet you at
this point.
>> Likewise.
>> So y I have to say you've done something
super cool which you've just told us
about and I really wanted to share it
with the whole public because I really
am envious of you. Not just because you
have great hair but also because I love
your hair. I've always said that uh but
also because you have been at the Nordic
Privacy Arena, haven't you?
>> Yes, I was lucky enough uh to be invited
as one of the speakers. So, um the
Nordic Privacy Arena is a conference um
well the name reveals it already. It is
focused on the Nordics. So Norway,
Denmark, Sweden, uh Finland, um how they
try to be more international and I think
they succeed in that because um the
lineup if you look at the lineup of
speakers uh most of them well at least
50% was uh non Nordic. So uh I'm of
course I'm from the Netherlands but I've
also heard people speaking uh who came
from uh America, the United States. uh I
think also the UK and Germany. So um
yeah, although it is called the Nordic
Privacy Arena, it is hosted in
Stockholm, but I have a um when I when I
went there, I I I got a really nice
international vibe uh from it and um
yeah, people speak speak English. So
it's an English speaking conference.
highly uh recommended I would say for
anyone interested in the data protection
uh space um or and maybe this is already
a little bit of a hint about uh other
top topics we will touch upon these only
data protection right it's also data
acts AI acts uh data governance acts
European health data space regulation
and I think that was also one of the uh
yeah the main things I took away from
that conference is that yeah if you only
focus on the GDPR alone yeah perhaps in
certain respects uh it can be enough to
do your job but these days uh no more
and more you have to take into account
other laws as well so yeah sorry these
were a lot of words long story short
it's a great conference you should go
there
>> and we will try we will definitely try
to go at some point because we are
trying to find some conference to go and
>> I think yeah I think for you guys it's
really a match because um uh yeah I
think legal for tech is really focused
on yeah it goes beyond the hype right I
mean uh yeah Rosie just before we
started the recording we talked a little
bit about LinkedIn and then yeah we have
to admit that uh the LinkedIn posts some
of them the the quality is a bit
deteriorating
right it's you see a lot of AI generated
stuff which is fine to a certain extent
but um especially due to technologies as
AI and others uh it keeps it is harder
and harder to find really quality
content and you guys uh offer offer that
and I think that's a really great match
with the uh Nordic privacy arena as well
because they the organizing committee
they really do their best to um to
invite people over who have um something
to say on specific topic. Maybe it's fun
to say because of course I will I would
like to talk about my own um uh lectures
I gave but do you want to know uh other
lectures I followed which I thought were
interesting maybe that's also something
to
>> you guys tell us about what you exp what
you
>> I will tell about myself
>> thank you very much I I uh I was there
for two sessions uh one was about so I
gave a lecture about um case law that
has been and case law that's probably
coming. So what's on the agenda of the
court of justice of the EU? Um case law
that has been uh let me see if hopefully
I can remember some cases. Well, of
course
this was also one of the things you
would like to talk about, right? the
pseudonymization case uh the SRB versus
EDPS appeal case brought before the
general court to be honest uh although
I've read the judgment I haven't really
um how do you say studied it because um
I did a search sorry a search for the
main topic at least
do you guys also find this is difficult
and miss.
>> We actually
we took a small course within legal foot
to actually pronounce these words
because we were very very confused. So
we have anonymization,
studentimization, we actually had to
train.
>> Oh, excellent. I wish I could attend
that course as well. Now, even if I had
to
>> next time, we'll open the gates.
>> Yeah, thank you very much. But no, so um
uh I think everybody knows this, but
quick recap for the listeners. So when
we apply the GDPR, one of the main
things you want to know is when are you
dealing with personal data? I mean if
you're not dealing with personal data,
GDPR does not apply. You can forget all
law etc. So this is quite an important
question. still after all those years of
data protection uh laws uh legal
scholars and judges and privacy
practitioners are still debating with
each other how to apply the term of
personal data and I think in a nutshell
uh the European data protection
supervisor but also a lot of other
supervisory authorities and other
intelligent people um they made several
statements about personal data one of
which is that pseudonymous data uh are
always personal data and I think um a
lot of us worked past years under that
assumption as well and others be uh is
more complicated question about uh okay
if you have a data set um from what
perspective should you regard those data
as personal data is that the
controller's perspective is it the
recipient's perspective
is true it is possible at least
theoretically and also legally uh as
confirmed by the court that uh even
though the controller from his or her
perspective those data are personal. So
the GDPR applies if you take the
perspective from the recipient and the
recipient only has synonymous data. Um
then yeah you could argue argue that in
certain cases certain scenarios those
data are not personal data.
What consequences will that have? I'm
still not fully uh sure about uh uh what
this means in practice but um yeah to
start with the first point are all
synonyous data automatically personal
data courts now really clear says no
that's not how it works you have to
assess that on a casebyase basis which I
think is logical but we data protection
professionals have been taught otherwise
for the past 10 15 years so that was
quite something uh what do you guys make
of it because I can talk on and on on
about this but I'm also wondering uh
have you thought about these
consequences if indeed you have two
parties send for the sending party these
are personal data but do due to
pseudonymization and technical and
organizational measures for the
recipient those data are not personal in
nature do you have any idea how to deal
with
Um actually so I have two points um to
on this. Firstly, I have to say I have a
very very um well prepped colleague on
this point uh David Vagnner um a spirit
legal and I have to say he made a very
very clear kind of point on this in
which he did explain like yes okay
studentse studentse studentse studentse
studentse studentse studentse studentse
studentse studentse student data don't
necessarily need to be um identifiable
so that that was the the whole point of
the situation I guess that that's also
the whole point of the judgment And I am
a bit
skeptical slashconerned about how this
kind of
>> obvious um decision which is like okay
if you don't have the way to identify
them they can be non-personal because it
makes sense
can be used to kind of
walk around the need for being extremely
like obviously
keeping security and keeping up with the
obligations under the GDPR. I was
reading a paper actually a couple of
days ago which was about this idea that
heads so privacy enhancing techniques
and technologies
can actually be used to
avoid actually respecting and fulfilling
the obligations under the GDPR because
it's less expensive. So if you say like,
"Yeah, I don't really do GDPR, but I do
something kind of similar that kind of
has the same effect,"
you should be able to completely avoid
the actual obligations that are there to
safeguard personal data and ultimately
the rights of the data subject. And I'm
a bit concerned
that this kind of like I would like to
use a very professional sentence,
pingpong
between
between processor and controller and
pseudonymous and nonsudonymous
could become kind of like a football
scheme to actually score the goal and
avoid um respecting the GDPR. I'm
referring to the famous technique of
tikitaka that's also very Italian and
also very beloved between our nationals.
Yeah, I know. We as Dutchies, we always
have a very hard time playing football
against you guys, but that's another
story. Um,
>> yeah, I totally get where what you mean
and I I share your um your concerns. Um
but because that's also my uh my feeling
that uh okay now we have a clear
understanding of how to apply these
legal criteria regarding a certain data
set and whether or not they are personal
data but I am dreading the uh scenario
in which let's say a client comes to a
lawyer and says oh we have pseudonyms
data and the lawyer checks it based on
the criteria of this court case and then
the lawyer says no you you are in the
clear these data are not only synonymous
but thanks to additional measures we can
conclude those data are not personal in
data in nature so the GDPR does not
apply then of course the client is very
happy and says oh okay we'll forget
about the GDPR uh we'll do other stuff
but we're not going to secure the data
any further or we're not going to
respect data protection rights in any
other um way but Then for instance the
data end up uh due to a hack on the
internet and people who are handy who
can uh connect and analyze those data
the data set uh changes its color so to
speak and it becomes personal in nature
and then we have a problem because yeah
back then the the client was advised
GDPR does not apply just go on a holiday
or whatever but now the data are
identifiable And there is a problem,
real problem for data subjects. So I'm a
bit scared that this u
this court case could lead to uh unsafe
scenarios if that's a correct uh word
that that people are too uh quickly u
drawing conclusions about. Yes, finally
we escaped the GDPR somehow. That's at
least what I'm afraid of. Do you share
this or are you a little bit more
optimistic?
>> I I also think that like you know when
you have memes like LMS that can infer
kind of correlations very very easily
potentially getting a lot of
slightly less identifiable personal data
around online could be dangerous. But um
I I agree with you like um I understand
the judgment of the court. I understand
the reason why sometimes the GDPR
obligations can be scary.
Um
I'm not a person that likes um the kind
of
midways. I'm very either or. Um so I'd
rather be
a bit more compliant and a bit safer
around than you know better safe than
sorry. Um but maybe will be proven
wrong.
>> No, exactly. That's also how I at least
advise my clients and um on LinkedIn I
saw quite a lot of lawyers who said so
the SRB versus EDPS appeal judgment was
published and quite a lot of lawyers
said oh yeah this this is something I've
been saying for years and years already
and then I think yeah what what do you
want to say with such a statement
because all the supervisory authorities
said something otherwise so in practice
if At least if you are a good lawyer.
I'm now just dissing everybody uh who
did it. But
>> that's a great way to make a judgment
about people. It's like if you are a
good lawyer and if you say that like
connect the dots.
>> Yeah. No, but if you're a good lawyer,
at least that's how I always uh advised
is that you say something like, okay, I
personally think if we apply the law,
it's not personal data. But still, we
live in the reality of the supervisory
authorities. You know, those are the
same guys who can impose a fine on you.
So, we have to be friends with them some
way. Uh they say something otherwise. Uh
so that's why in the past 15 years I
have advised
uh not based on what the court just
said. Yeah, of course now I will. But uh
in the past 15 years I I didn't because
we lived in the reality of supervisory
authorities who uh um had a different
view and and basically said pseudonymous
data are always personal data and not
only that um uh the controller's
perspective
you should take when assessing whether
or not the data set is personal in
nature. So I think it's very if you are
a lawyer and as a reaction to this court
case you say oh this is something I've
always said so then I hope well I hope
you didn't say so to your clients with
the conclusion uh just follow me and
ignore the supervisory authorities
because that would be I think a very
risky move and that's not the way I uh I
practiced uh law but that that's
personal that's personal um yeah that's
just
>> I do see some skeleton in the wardrobes.
>> Wait, sorry. Sorry. What? What?
>> I do see some potential for some tiny
little secrets hidden back that you just
uncovered completely.
>> We will see. We will see. I feel I feel
potential for litigation actually. But
we will see. We will see.
>> Potential litigation. Sorry, I'm not
following.
>> We will see. We will see if these
lawyers actually did advise the clients
wrong because
>> Ah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We'll see. I
I always think well I hope I hope that
they are very well insured that they
have a very good uh personal insurance
for for bad legal advice.
Yeah. Okay. But that's just me. But from
now on from now on I could say to
clients okay now finally we have the SRV
versus EPS appeal. Luckily for you it is
quite nuanced regarding whether or not
data could be personal data in nature.
Um
and I think also the EPS uh and other
supervisory authorities have to admit
that there are few well what's not in
line with the law. Um and then of course
you can advise in a different direction
but still then I come to the first uh
section of what we already discussed. Uh
I I I'm still a bit hesitant uh to say,
"Oh, you can just mind your own business
right now because the GDPR does not
apply because I I think that's too
scary." That's okay.
That's that's me.
Uh Jako, do you have any additions? How
would you advise?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I I'm I'm stopping the
lawyers chatting here because I'm not a
lawyer, so I will stop that. No jokes
apart. Uh I was I was wondering like uh
uh if uh so data are categorized as not
personal, do other legislations apply?
Like for example uh what about the the
data hacked that uh is now enforcable?
Yeah, very good uh remark because um
yeah, what we see more and more is that
uh yeah, traditionally um European laws
were about regulating personal data.
Most notably, we have the GPR, but
before that, of course, the data
protection directive. Um more and more
we see this term non-personal data
coming popping up in all kinds of laws.
uh meaning uh data which are not
personal data. So that can be a lot a
lot of types of uh data uh recently from
the top of my head uh on the 12th of
September the data act uh applied and
yes that law doesn't really care or
doesn't care at all whether or not data
are personal. No, those are about data
uh in relation to so-called connected
products or yeah, I would say internet
of things kind of stuff like uh smart
household appliances
uh smartwatch, smart thermostat, but
also um your car uh I mean if you would
buy a car today, it is a modern car
connected to the internet with all these
uh data and sensors and and whatnot. All
those products and their data are
covered by the data act. So indeed
Jakamo um we can discuss all day long
about whether or not some data are
personal but the data act doesn't care
about that at all. Um so yeah
non-personal data I think that's quite a
thing. It is was already a definition in
a regulation called the free flow of
non-personal data. that's not a very
well-known uh piece of law but has been
introduced a few years ago but you you
see it now more and more uh in several
laws. So
yeah maybe the whole discussion uh
>> it is still interesting because yeah if
data are personal data then you have to
deal with uh data subjects but but if
you conclude how these data are not
personal data it's not the end of the
story data act can still apply other
laws can still apply um yeah so yeah
>> I mean the data act I think is
particularly interesting because like it
does talk about different concepts which
I feel like I mean of course they were
never at the center the center point of
the GDPR things like interperability is
like yeah okay there is like half a
provision or something but it wasn't the
core of the GDPR. Um, what I find kind
of
interesting and sometimes slightly
unrealistic about the data act is this
idea that
>> your data
can be kind of moved around but also
used for commercial purposes. So like
technically this idea of like you can
sell your data.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's
>> because Yeah. What do you think about
that?
>> Yeah. Very good qu and I noticed that I
understand that feeling that uh at least
there again people on LinkedIn are quite
shocked uh when they finally understood
what the data act is about. So maybe
just for the for the listener a short
recap the data act uh u I have to start
in a different way. We already knew or
have u legislation in Europe that
regulates uh data from government
entities.
Uh and the idea about this that is that
those data uh within the boundaries of a
government entity
is um being made or should be being
should be made available uh to
everywhere to everyone businesses,
citizens for uh main reason what they
call yeah they call it reuse of public
sector information. Why? Because it has
a lot of economic value. So uh this is
just simple um uh example you have the
uh methological station in the
Netherlands it's called the the KNMI I
think every country has one like
official government instance that um
among other things predicts the weather
right whether or not it in the
Netherlands it's usually rain in Munich
right now it is sunny uh but they they
analyze oh more or less they analyze a
lot of data and they uh based on the
data they issue a weather prediction.
Those are government data because this
this has been done by government. The
data has been registered by government
owned stations everywhere in the world.
Um and the idea is that uh those data uh
have a lot of value in it. uh and if we
make it available to businesses they can
build apps on top of it or software or
other type types of uh appliances uh
which is good for economy. So in the
Netherlands we have this company called
yeah literal translation would be um
rain radar because Dutch people are
always obsessed about when and where it
will rain. So we have on our we
everybody has this app on his phone for
the Dutch people bund you know this
app shows you very precisely where it's
going to rain but the people from bor
did not record or register all those
data themselves now they they buy or use
the data from the government sorry they
don't buy it they just retrieve it why
because based on the open data directive
this should be made possible okay so we
already have a tradition
of governments making data available to
the outside world for economic purposes.
On top of that, after the open data
directive, the few years ago, there was
like an an accompanying law, extra law
on top of that called the data
governance act, but we will probably
devote another uh section about that
act. Anyways, open data act, data
governance act regulating government
data.
You could say this is only one part of
the coin. There's another side which is
data held by businesses. Business data
are very valuable for the same reasons.
Others could make services on top of it
or uh combine it with their own data
etc. But that part of business data was
not regulated in the EU and that's what
the whole data act is about that we are
going to regulate those business data
and a lot of people and of course they
they are truly correct if they say that
is that the data act regulates internet
of things but if you read closely it has
different chapters and it also regulates
all other kinds of stuff uh like you
said interoperability is a huge uh topic
uh I think I've never seen it described
in such a lengthy way uh until now. Um
so interoperability also for the
listeners who are not that into legal
stuff is is about the notion that uh if
you have like two uh data spaces or two
networks or two databases whatever that
they can communicate with each other uh
and and you have to make rules about
that of what will be the rules of that
communication. Sounds very simple. It is
not. Luckily uh there are now rules
about interoperability
uh so that you can connect all that
stuff. Um and yeah now we have the data
act and if we zoom in on the first
subject the internet of things so the
smart house smart uh appliances for
instance but also your connected car or
uh I don't know even airplanes or robots
are are part of it uh those uh products
all yeah how you say emit data uh if you
use them uh and those data can be very
helpful for example if you are in the
repairing business you repair cars uh uh
you want to know uh the state of the car
and you can do that by analyzing the
car. These days it all goes with
computers, right? So you plug in the car
in the in the computer system and the
computer system will tell you uh as a
repair guy uh what's wrong with it. Um
but those data are owned so to speak by
the manufacturer. So this data act
forces manufacturers of connected
products to make those data available to
everybody to citizens to businesses to
whoever wants it and yeah those data uh
can be personal in nature. So this is I
understand that people are a bit wary
about this whole ordeal. So yeah okay
where is this data going?
Yeah. Uh the data act says uh if there's
any tension with the GDPR that the GDPR
should prevail but uh yeah I'm not so
sure how this will play out in practice.
The thing is like is it important
whether the data is actually personal
for like giving it a huge value and most
importantly to have it have a direct
effect upon people because what I'm a
bit concerned about is like we're
talking about internet of things right
and your car knows exactly where you're
going right it doesn't matter if the car
knows that that is Rosalia's car and
Rosalia has gone A to B or does go A to
B five times per week or per day or
whatever. What it matters is like
probably Rosalia driving a BMW. Don't
ask me why. Um
means that there is some BMW that drives
from A to B every single day. and that
potentially if I do drive a BMW, I have
a slightly higher economic status
because BMWs are expensive. And so, for
example, you could place there from A to
B an advertisement that would definitely
appeal to me. And it doesn't matter if
that is potentially just my data. What
matters is that you have access to
the location of a given car at a given
place.
on a huge scale. I'm just a bit
concerned about the effects that having
access anyways to data whether they are
personal or not that can be aggregated
this level
is fair to the consumer or to the user
even to the business anyways that that's
just my question.
It raises a lot of privacy questions,
privacy related questions. Um, yeah, for
the data act, it doesn't really matter
whether or not those data are personal
or non-personal. It only this is really
short. If you want perhaps it's a good
idea to uh make the listener uh aware of
my article. So, right now, this is a
podcast, so I'm not telling you all the
details. So, if you listen to this and
oh, Yos, you were wrong. Well, please
read my article first then and if you
then still think I'm wrong, please send
me a message because I can be that's
that's perfectly fine. Yeah. So, I have
this article uh written uh peer reviewed
so other people uh uh looked at it as
well. Uh about the data act where I lay
down just the act itself. I explain it.
Uh people can yeah if you just can
contact me or Rosia or whatever, we'll
make it available. Yeah, this uh this is
no problem. So, what I'm going to say
here is just a general u take on data
protection and the data data act. But I
think the data act it has a some
provisions that try to uh protect data
in the same way it does uh the GDPR with
with personal data. But no, it's really
about uh in its core is really about
making data available. So that's that's
quite the opposite. It has to be it has
to be in the outside world uh for anyone
to use. You can actually uh also demand
that as a user. So you are the user of a
vehicle. Uh you can demand Tesla to to
Tesla for example or BMW BMW uh that the
data are not sent to you to as a vehicle
driver but to a third party because you
you want to uh make available the
service of the uh so you want to use the
services of the third party. So you can
actually order or request uh the the
vehicle manufacturer to send the data to
another uh party soal third party. Um
this is all uh quite can raise all kind
of kind of complex questions because if
we talk about vehicles uh and you're
talking about location data um these are
not uh also potentially the location
data of the driver but also from the
people inside the car right who are also
part of the of the journey. Um and then
you see I think this is quite funny is
that uh the uh data act makes clear that
yeah well in those cases you must always
have a legal ground. It almost says
literally uh that a legal ground in the
sense of GDPR in practice that will be
consent. I think that's I think the only
only real uh logical uh legal ground uh
we we have here. But how does that work
in practice? You have to ask all the
people inside your car. Hey, I want to
use this third party app with location
data of my car. Do you guys agree? And
there's also a toddler in the back. That
kid doesn't know anything. Luckily,
hopefully you are the parents of the
toddler. You can do the consent on on
his or her behalf or No, it raises all
these um uh complex questions from a
data protection perspective. And the
data act does not answer those
questions. it only says yeah well if
there's any tension between this act and
the GDPR the GDPR prevails I think it's
a bit easy to just uh how do you say um
move the problem outside the the data
act
>> especially because legal basis from the
GDPR are always so clear
>> that there would never be an issue in
trying to understand which one prevails
and which one's better I am sure that
everyone would know which legal basis to
use because of the GDPR
>> hopefully
and and there's another thing I just uh
uh reminded that um the data act uh has
like some sort of blanket statement that
the data from a connected product. So in
this case the vehicle we are talking
about uh those data may only be used uh
in line with the purposes and the
conditions yeah between the user and the
manufacturer. Um
but at the same time like I said third
parties are also eligible to receive
those data and then it has a strange I
think provision. I think the guy or or
girl who wrote this thought, oh yeah,
but maybe that can be like an extra
risk, right? But so you have a third
party with with potentially uh yeah,
privacy um uh
of personal personal data or otherwise
um raises privacy issues. And so the
legislator then said, "Yeah, well
that third party is not allowed to use
the data for profiling." Okay, it sounds
good. And then the sentence ends with
yeah but unless the profiling is
necessary for the service. So okay c can
you can you use it for profiling? Yes or
no? For me it's it is unclear. Um and
that's I think that uh through and
through all those uh provisions u you
see that the mindset is totally
different. It's not about data
protection. It's about data making
available to everyone including third
parties. Uh and then you of course you
see a legislator knows or heard
something about the term profiling and
think oh yeah profiling is scary. Uh
don't do don't use it for profiling and
then oh yeah but maybe profiling is
necessary so okay you can't do it and
then that so this is a big shock for
data protection people
>> but then if you're a big company then
you can't do it you can't aggregate data
because of the DMA. So like
>> yeah there is also yeah there is also
are you hinting on the there is indeed
the special provision um that refers to
the the DMA that that's one the one you
mean right?
>> Uh so
>> it's a bit messed up.
>> Yeah. So I can explain or do you want to
explain it? Uh
>> no no no I tr I trust your article more
than than my memory.
>> Yeah. So if I'm hopefully because I've
read it I I wrote the article this
summer but somehow I don't know how
about you guys but if you write an
article for me when it's done it leaves
my head it's uh it's it is
>> for me losing my head while I'm writing
it which is problematic but
>> yeah well that's another problem but um
no in this case so so when we talked
about making data available you could to
everyone uh and you've read the
newspaper be Jakamo. This is I think
also for you from your perspective
interesting because this d ties into the
whole data as a political subject uh
matter. Um so what I want to say is that
uh when we talked about data making it a
available to everyone you might think
making it available to Google as well uh
or alphabet to meta to by dance right a
company by Tik Tok do those guys don't
have enough data when is enough enough
and I think the legislator at some point
thought the same they thought if you
make it available to everyone we're
making it available to big Chinese
companies as well as and to big American
companies as well. That's not what we
want for all kinds of uh trade related
reasons. Uh so they put in a provision
that says well
uh this is my parization those data
should not end up uh in the hands of the
so-called gatekeepers gatekeepers who
are uh designated as such under the
digital market act. So I think from the
top of my head uh do do you know the
list of gatekeepers from
>> yeah it's seven okay
>> so it should be alphabet apple meta I am
sure
>> um bite dance is one Microsoft is one
>> two say did I say you didn't say
>> no yeah
>> I'm googling frantically googling no
There are yeah
>> Google is alphabet. So like I think I
said
>> originally there were six but now
>> the seven I'm sure because I searched up
yesterday.
>> Oh this one I I wouldn't I guess this
one. Do you know it? It starts with a
Booking.
>> No.
>> Yes.
>> You are a genius.
>> How did you do that?
But there are I think 23 core services
if you were to
>> but uh Jako I for now I think this is
your moment to shine given your
background. Uh what do you make of this
uh well the the data act legislator
tries to keep uh those gatekeepers like
like booking but also Google etc outside
the realm of uh data sharing. This is
highly political right. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. It's super political indeed and
it's super interesting to be honest. Um
uh I mean it's really really legal
language uh from time to time. So it's
it's a bit difficult for me to to
understand like this kind of topics but
they're they're super super relevant and
yeah so that's it's amazing to hear from
from your point of view as well. And
what do you think uh because that that
is also um something that has that voice
is going getting louder and louder that
on the one hand. So of course we have
seen messages from Trump and the and his
friends that they are very critical
about the legislation in Europe and it
hinders American companies like Google,
like Microsoft etc. Uh on the one hand
the European voice is that yeah well but
you guys profited uh a lot from our
internal market uh also um because of
those open data directive uh um
legislation which like I explained uh
made government data European
governments where they they didn't pay
well they do pay taxes but they not not
a lot uh for those governments to exist.
European government data was also used
by Google and is still used by Google
and they don't pay any cent for it. So I
think it's I yeah h how do you see this?
What what's your personal take? Do you
think that the American companies have a
fair point or do you think well maybe
enough is enough?
>> Am I also the only one that sees that
the DMA can be easily walked around by
one simple thing? Oh wow.
>> It says it says the gatekeepers and also
the data act talks about the gatekeepers
and strictly for the core services. So
my point is what if you were at Google
deep mind
like it's that's not the core service
like open AI is not there.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think I read this
>> meta llama is not there like because
it's it's the core service of Facebook
and Instagram but does llama also apply
not sure because AI wasn't out in 2022
>> yeah this is a very yeah this is very
good very well spotted I think when I
wrote this article I remember something
but I'm not sure whether I whether or
not I read it in the recital or in the
frequently asked
questions of the commission. Those are
by the way I I would recommend anyone
reading those. There was something like
in in this context of gatekeepers. Uh
the idea that yeah but the data should
should not should also not end up within
their subsidiaries or like ancillary
activities. I think that was the idea.
>> Sure. Sure. Firstly, I mean I would
point out that unless the commission
actually does its job and names the
services, their frequently asked
questions have the validity of this
podcast. Um, more or less, uh, we're
actually best. Uh, but also
I don't think any member of the
commission is going to come on this
podcast, but also I love how we were
laughing at this. Great. Um but also no
I was I I wanted to say it's difficult
in some cases like if you see the
American cases for example of
um the parent companies of something
like character AI being led back to
Google um it's very difficult to
demonstrate
subsidiarity and I'm sure that like laws
in Europe are a bit different from the
American ones. they do have this kind of
corporate liability idea um that's kind
of like taken from the British. It's
really completely different from from
ours. But at the same time, I do believe
that
anything that has a very strictly named
list of things
can be easily worked around. So I'm not
sure. We'll see. That's my point.
>> Well, I think one one thing is for sure.
Yeah, you you rais a really valid point.
One thing is for sure, the gatekeepers
we are talking about, they will contest
any and all of this. They will try to
get those data act data as well and they
will give you 50 arguments why they're
perfectly lawful to do uh to to receive
those data and if not they will go to
court and they will fight with the
commission. For them, it's no problem to
do all of that. Um because yeah the data
are really valuable and uh yeah I their
lawyers are now thinking really hard
about how to circumvent uh uh any of
those provisions hindering them um from
this uh data act um data. Yeah, but fair
point. So,
yeah, are there ways for the DMA
gatekeepers to receive data acts u data
and all in any way? Yeah, could very
well be uh good point, Rosia. I haven't
thought about it really.
>> Someone should research this. And and by
the way, uh about the DMA and AI thing
that we were discussing before, I I
remember that the commission just open
like some sort of consultation to to a
review of the DMA right now. So I think
they probably want to try to insert
these AI providers and so on. So but
it's not going to be like it's going to
be like a long time before we we reach
like a real low. So yeah. Do you think
uh so if I understand you correctly
Jeromeode they are um already trying to
well revise the DMA or or evaluate it
but do they do it with the mindset we
are going to expand the list of
gatekeepers or we are going to make
shorter
>> I think so I think so because as far as
I remember I was reading like the like
the consultation and they were talking
about uh uh the implication for the
artificial artificial intelligence
sector. So probably they will try to
tackle that and it depends also from the
organization that are giving like this
the feedbacks on that if they want to
include
>> they also have to do it on a yearly
basis don't they? So like it's a year
has passed since 2024 September whenever
the DMA was entering into force so I
guess that they have to do it like in
terms of they have to rethink of the
list
>> gatekeepers. So this is something um
suffering something different compared
to yeah you also have this AI actu stop
the clock uh discussion me several
member states are about yeah for them
the AI act it goes too fast and they
want to pause it in a certain respect
that's something different right so you
are talking about the regular event
>> yeah yeah yeah different
>> yeah I think
>> it's not a revision it's a it's it's
like their annual report
every year.
>> I see. I see. Yeah. But I mean that
Yeah. The DMA
um you you guys know this better than
me. I think um those gatekeepers they
they contested probably their label as
gatekeeper
with success. Yes. No. Is has it
>> happened? X X actually managed and they
got removed from the list
>> and if I'm not mistaken also Facebook
marketplace as a core service got
removed
>> but not Meta in general because Facebook
is still an online network provider and
it's still in the list for that core
service.
>> I see if I'm not mistaken.
>> I see. And then we have of course but
that's a different scope uh digital
services act. So that regulates
platforms a lot of those platforms that
it doesn't regulate the provider, it
regulates the product in like we can't
call it product but like you get my
point.
>> Yeah. But but there there is a certain
overlap right between the gatekeepers
some of their
>> Yeah they're the same.
>> The ones that are gatekeepers
>> Uhhuh.
>> actually happen to have um services
regulated under DSA.
>> Oh I see. I see. And of
>> Yeah. No, I understand. Um, and if you
read the newspaper from time to time,
you see that the if regarding the DSA, a
lot of these companies have big problems
with it. And then I think that the DSA
does a really good job, right? I mean,
uh,
>> I think that it's easier to argue on
freedom of speech than arguing on
competition. So I think that companies
do exploit the DSA to go against
European regulation because it's so hype
and it's so great for American and
sometimes Chinese narrative I would say.
>> Yeah.
>> So I do think that they're exploiting
the narrative because it's much more
relatable than like oh it's competition
problem. Oh great what is it?
>> Do you even know what competition is?
And are you guys uh because this is just
this idea if it's nothing we can cut it
out the podcast but I was wondering
there more and more I see a crossover
between uh GDPR and DSA. Uh I think
there are two regulators in in the in
Europe and supervisory authorities that
say something like hey what you are
doing for example Facebook your terms
and conditions uh infringe the GDPR and
thus are also DSA infringements because
the uh the DSA says that your terms and
conditions have to be in line with EU
law. Do you have you heard about this?
Um yeah, I'm so sorry. Um interesting
people around Munich today. Um I guess
it's the October fest. Um
but no um I can tell you something about
that because actually um I was talking
about this at a project that was um
provided uh in Ria uh last week
actually. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And I can tell you that um the
litigations that um law firms such as
Veril Legal um brought before courts
here in Germany but also in other courts
around around the European Union did
exploit a kind of the framework of the
GDPR talking about profiling to then say
and that's also
um a violation of uh the DSA. So they
use the profiling they said these firms
these companies do profiling thereafter
they're also breaching the um DSA
articles 28 26 and also 34 35 you can
think about systemic risk.
>> So I I I get your point because I
actually read
>> the acts and and I can tell you that a
lot um a lot of especially private
enforcement is going around there. like
you used my data, you profiled me. That
was not a that was not um allowed under
the GDPR and that's also not allowed
under the DSA.
>> Oh, I see. I see. Ah, okay. And what was
the conference called in RIA
>> or the meeting?
>> Yeah. So it was called React Pilot and
it was organized by I think Sinalaga
which is um a consultancy firm that's
also um helping consumer associations
such as Euro consumers and Alra
Consumer. We've had some of them uh here
on the podcast as well. So I really
really really do recommend listening to
those episodes as well um with for
example Marco, Marco Pirani, the great
friends of the podcast also El Bamman
and um see a bit of plugging um but yeah
it was really interesting. There were
four consumer associations from around
um the European Union and we were
talking about the way that the DSA uh
especially can be enforced privately
through class actions. So talking about
the um kind of interlap between the DSA
and the collective representation
directive or RA which are also the
initials of my name. So I really like
that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh nice. Double
win. Oh, very interesting. So I'm sure
you guys will uh pick up this topic uh
for another time, right? Because it's
there's so much more uh to say uh about
this yeah GDPR DSA crossover. Um yeah, I
I just highlighted it because it I see
it more and more and yeah, the fact that
you can just already name so many people
are also thinking about this longer
longer than me. Uh yeah, it's a
testimony that it it will get bigger,
right? This uh this crossover.
>> I really do hope that some of these
cases are going to get to the CJU.
>> Yeah. Um because I I think it's a
problem that needs to be addressed by a
European court, not just by obviously
national judges are great, but we I
think we need a a unified response
because the academia is thinking about
that of course, but what's that in
practice?
Um what's that when you think about
damages for example? Which one prevails?
Do you do 50/50?
Do you get both?
Yeah,
>> big issues.
>> Good topic. Do we have uh time left for
a question? What do you want to ask me?
Because we're I think now talking for
one hour.
>> Yep. I will ask you the last last
question before we let the UO which is
firstly how's DG Beetle going because
>> I'm seeing it around
>> very well. Yeah. So uh yeah what we try
with DGB tool is offering a platform uh
for data protection professionals who
want to be up to date regarding case law
supervisory authority documents the laws
of what we like to call these days the
EU digital rule book talked about the
data act of course GDPR DSA DSA it's all
there um it is it is going uh very well
I'm quite proud of proud of it these
days more and more u supervisory
authorities are using it and I think I
uh can explain that because for them the
world can also feel overwhelming and
they have to stay on top of things right
I mean now we have these this uh SRB
versus EDBS appeal judgment they have to
be aware of that because the last 15
years as we discussed they uh they put
out a whole different notion of
pseudomous data so they have to aware
that the world has changed and I think
uh more and more of those authorities
are getting up to speed. So that I'm
really grateful for that. Also, I want
to highlight that we work together with
the kind people of the uh Brussels
University
um PhD research researchers who help us
with uh so-called expert explainers and
so this is the people side and I think
people are still the best source if
you're looking for intelligence but
sometimes you want to do something
quickly. So, for example, when I put
something on LinkedIn,
yes, I read a judgment, but it's also
really helpful that an AI tool can help
you with something like a summary. So,
that's also a development. We're not uh
blindsided. How how do you say? We're
not like an ostrich putting our head in
the sand. No. Uh very soon uh we will
open up the platform so you can connect
it with your favorite AI tool and I'm
already using it in a in a beta. uh
stage so to test it out and I think yeah
it is so nice because you can just you
just highlight a topic of let's say
right to compensation
and uh on the platform you can just
filter it on the topic and you then feed
your tool my favorite tool is claude for
example I don't know do you have a
favorite AI tool maybe chipt or
>> I have to say claude is particularly
well behaved
>> yes well behaved
>> I would say
I really like Perplexity.
>> Oh, Perplexity. Oh,
>> you can have
>> you can have all of them on Perplexity
if I'm not mistaken. Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Which uh that is owned by Amazon or
>> isn't it still privately owned? I think
so.
>> Yeah, I think so. Yeah, I think that's
the uh the best thing about it is that u
you can feed your information in your
favorite tools or does really matter
what you use. Um and I think the answers
now. So if you for example if you would
ask cloth just from a blank slide uh
dear cloth what is the current state of
play regarding right to compensation uh
in light of the court of justice
judgments. It maybe it will produce more
or less okay answer but to be honest cla
does not know the most recent judgments.
it doesn't also know the most importance
because yeah it just looks on the
internet for cloth any source is equally
as important but I think especially the
the tandem the the combination between a
human the user of DJ belel uh making his
or own package of information with only
the sources he trusts uh and send that
to the AI tool of course instructing the
AI tool use only this information uh
during the beta test it already yielded
very good results.
>> Uh I would never copy paste it directly
to a client because I'm a control freak
and I want to read it as well for
myself. But if you want to use it for
example uh a LinkedIn post or blog post
or newsletter then you can quickly get
to I think yeah information which which
you can copy and paste. And for the more
critical assignments for example uh if
you have to advise a client um then
claude or your other tool of your liking
uh really helps to uh save you just a
lot of time because yeah you can
>> read 20 judgments about the right to
compensation or you can just ask uh
cloth a question like what type of
damages got compensated in these 20 uh
judgments and it will save you hours
hours hopey. Hopefully, we will use that
free time to go on a holiday or sit on
the beach, but I'm afraid we will use
that time to work even more. But maybe
that's that's an all different topic.
But um no, all jokes aside, it the the
very the first results are really um
yeah, I'm really happy about it. and uh
and the platform just to uh to circle
back is that we invest in the in the
knowledge and in the high quality
content. Uh so you can use it any way
you like. So you can use it with using
an AI tool or you can just I don't know
watch one of our webinars or whatever.
So long story short, it goes well and
hopefully it will get any better. Still
yeah even better. I am really really
happy to hear that.
Just to conclude this amazing
conversation, I will give you a couple
of plugs for our listeners. First plug
is you will find the link to Yose
article here in the show notes and you
will definitely be able to find Yost as
well because we will tag him when we
will publish the podcast. So in case you
actually want to ask him why he came up
with such great ideas, you can actually
do it by um DM him um
as as he suggested. And then great plug,
please do visit DJ Bele is a great
platform for getting uh very important
information. I use it every time as
well. And I would also advise you to let
us know when finally this new tool will
be available because you can bet that I
can't wait to use it. So I will probably
use my happy Claude who is very friendly
to me and potentially um let you know
how it works. So thank you very much for
joining us, Yos. It was a pleasure to
see you again and thank you for opening
this season for us.
>> Uh it was a real pleasure. Thank you. uh
for uh letting me have the honor of
being the first uh guest of the new
season. I wish you guys uh everyone in
the legal fortech team all the best and
good luck with this season season. I
will be a listener uh for the rest of
the episodes and I can't wait what you
guys have in in store for us. So uh
thank you very much. Thank you so much.
And thank you so much, Jakamo, for
joining us today because I mean the the
person behind everything here is really
Jakamo. I'm just talking.
>> Thank you. Thank you both. It was super
interesting.
>> Thank you. And this was all from Legal
for Tech the podcast season two.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
