[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello, I'm Tom Parker and welcome to
Voices from the SEPs Ideas Lab. In this
episode, I spoke with Dr. Ron Bosshma.
Dr. Bosshma is professor in regional
economics at Utrect University. During
our interview, we explored how a
smarter, regionally tailored approach to
EU competitiveness could unlock new
opportunities for growth and ensure that
economic policies reflect the unique
strengths of different regions. I hope
you enjoy the
episode. Well, Ron, welcome. Thanks very
much for for spending some time with us
today. Yeah, thank you. Happy to be
here. and and for me and for some other
listeners out there who don't know
enough about this topic, could you
explain a little bit more about what
evolutionary economic geography is all
about? Right. So I think the main focus
of evolution economic geography is
provide an explanation uh why some
regions grow more than other regions,
why some activities are heavily
concentrated in one particular area.
think about why the film industry is
located in Hollywood or uh the car
industry is concentrated in Detroit and
taking an evolutionary perspective you
provide an additional insights to let's
say mainstream economics that would very
much look uh look at marketed processes
uh well evolution economic geography
would tend to focus more on the idea of
uh capabilities that you need uh to
develop uh an industry like in Detroit
uh there were a lot of capabilities
around on which this industry could
build uh and therefore it gained a
comparative advantage uh which was uh
really hard to copy by other
territories. So I think to me in the uh
that's the essence of an evolutionary
approach to economic geography uh uh
that uh is very different from let's say
mainstream economics that provide very
different explanations. Well, I always
thought, you know, films in LA is
because half a film is shot outside and
you wouldn't want it to be too sunny
while you're working in a factory, so it
has to be in Detroit. Uh, well, it's
more it's more difficult than that.
Yeah, of course. Of course, I just
because uh in in a way the film industry
is really project based uh uh industry
in which of course people come together
uh to produce a film. uh so you need uh
many people uh many specialists uh that
have to come together to work on such a
project and they're all around in
Hollywood so it would be very easy to to
to recruit those people uh you know uh
who is whom in that particular trade and
therefore uh it's much more easy to
concentrate and to get to get the pet
people in that particular place. If
you're not around there you will not
have access to those people. You don't
know about the latest. you don't know
about the latest trends in the film
industry and therefore you have to be
there and that is self-reinforcing right
so and therefore it's very hard to
compete other places all around the
world uh in order to build a competitive
film industry unless you're in India
right when you're in of course the
Indian film industry that's the same
story it's also heavily concentrated in
one particular place in India uh uh but
the the Indian film industry is very
much focused on a different type of film
uh which is very unique to India and
therefore you don't see any productions
in Hollywood uh that make Indian films
because they they lack that type of
competences the the capabilities to
produce those so again you have to be
there in India to be to to matter in
that industry and therefore you find
that concentration well let's bring it
back to Europe because of the diverse uh
arrangement of the 27 member states in
Europe
Europe. Let's look at how the the EU
budget must work when you're talking
about competitiveness in the context of
evolutionary economic geography. Let's
discuss that. How how do you address how
does the EU address its diversity across
that when it's looking at an EU budget?
Oh, that's very much so. I think uh uh
uh when I think about the competitive
value you just uh the the Draggy report
was launched a few months ago of course
attracted a lot of attention and one of
the the claims that the report make is
that Europe is really poor on emerging
economy uh emerging technologies uh
lacks a bit of focus does not set
priorities
uh does not collaborate enough I think
here you you need an evolutionary
perspective in order to give that more
body because uh what Draghi uh was not
really explaining well that all member
states in in a way can contribute to
that particular mission because each
country and each region inside the
country have accumulated very specific
capabilities that provide opportunities
to move into new technologies but the
set also limits what to you you what you
can achieve. So many regions, many
member states would like to participate
in AI. But there are very few regions,
very few member states that actually can
do that because they have the
capabilities to do so. Now every member
state they have opportunities
but the opportunities will differ from
region to region because the
capabilities are very different. So all
what you have to do is to identify those
opportunities. Uh and there are method
methods to do that. uh I myself have
been very much engaged in this type of
research. So we can map out for each
member state, for each region what type
of opportunities they have and they
should really exploit those uh in
building an competitive uh uh uh policy.
Well, what what key factors should be
considered when evaluating the
effectiveness of a single
competitiveness fund uh in fostering
economic growth and innovation across
the EU? Well, that's goes back to what I
said before, right? So, you really have
to take capabilities uh that are around
as a point of departure. So, again, if
you really want to build something in
which you want to uh uh uh gain a
competitive advantage worldwide, it
means you have to work on the
capabilities that are present in the
region. Let me just take an example. Now
we have a tech champion in Europe which
is ASML in the Anhovven region. Mhm. And
that actually is a spin-off of the
capabilities. It's actually a spin-off
of Philips that was that was
concentrated in that particular region.
And uh SML was a spin-off. Uh it's now
one of them it's the the the main
producer of a very complex machine to
produce chips. H and and why is it in an
Hovven and not elsewhere? because it
uses light technologies. It it uses
computer technologies. It was all there.
The capabilities were ready to use. They
did it. They benefited from it and they
were able to build a global uh uh leader
in that particular trade. Um and that
shows to me uh that yeah again you have
to exploit the capabilities that you
that you have. Now almost no other
region in Europe could have done this
because they lack these type of
capabilities. not they might have
capabilities in certain green
technologies then they should exploit
those. Uh so to me a point of departure
of this type of competitive policy is
definitely what type of capabilities
what type of set of opportunities do you
have given the capabilities that are
around. But it is also about uh uh uh uh
looking at to what type of
collaborations
uh can you actually make because you
cannot do everything yourself. you have
to connect to other regions in Europe.
Uh so even for a region like the
Anhovven region in the Netherlands, they
have to collaborate with others. They
have to exploit capabilities that are
elsewhere available in Europe. Now what
we actually can observe in Europe is
that those complimentarities that are
around and that we can identify by doing
research are not being exploited in
Europe. So that is one of the reason why
we have very few champions uh uh
worldwide and why China and the US are
doing much better because they don't
have to deal with uh uh national borders
and therefore they can exploit the
complimentarities inside their own
country. Well in Europe we can actually
observe that complimentarities are uh uh
often outside your own country. So you
have to collaborate internationally
within the European Union. But what we
observe in reality is that those
collaboration patterns have a very
strong national bias. So uh uh il France
region the Paris region is collaborating
with Bordeaux and Tulus uh but not with
Germany or Poland or Italy where where
the best complimentarities are
available. So in in that sense Europe is
really doing a poor job is not
exploiting the complimentarities that
are around. So to me if you really want
to build an effective competitive uhness
agenda you really have to take into
account those two dimensions. Start from
capabilities that are present in your
region because they provide
opportunities. Uh um and secondly you
have to collaborate. you have to make
international connections in order to
exploit the complimentarities and that
is what we are not doing in Europe and
that is a big shame and that is a big
loss uh uh uh so we can do much better
if we take uh that very seriously and we
take action in order to make that happen
yeah absolutely how can you ensure that
uh the new competitive fund aligns with
larger strategic goals uh like um social
cohesion like sustainability a as well
is still driving economic performance.
Yeah, I think it's it's it's not easy,
right? So uh uh so definitely I have not
a full answer that that that we can uh
align all those objectives economic uh
social environmental and we bring them
all in line but let me just give a good
example that this this can actually be
done and that is if we look at where are
the potential of uh uh uh to develop
green technologies in
Europe to uh as surprise to me uh we did
some research on that one or two years
ago when we published a report that was
assigned by the European Commission and
actually we found that the less
developed regions have the best
opportunities to develop green
technology. So they have the right
capabilities in order to to uh uh to go
into that direction. So here you solve a
lot of problems or a lot you you can
accomplish a lot of objectives uh uh at
the same time. First of all, it will
bring prosperity to less developed
regions in Europe because they will uh
uh create new jobs in those uh uh green
technologies. Uh secondly, they will
contribute to the green deal in Europe.
So uh so it will also uh meet the
objectives of uh of of this
sustainability transition. And thirdly,
those are the less developed regions,
right? So the lowincome regions in
Europe. So in terms of cohesion it would
be very good if they could really
exploit that fully because uh they will
grow and it would uh have consequences
for disparities uh across Eurence and
Europe. So it would be also good for
cohesion. So in that sense you can
actually see taking such a very concrete
example that you can accomplish uh uh
the three objectives uh uh and and I
think uh this is what Europe should
exploit much more. I want to look at the
wider EU policies and when when you're
designing any EU policy, how do you take
in to account more of the territorial
differences so that they can be better
represented in the design of EU
policies? I think it's an absolute uh uh
prerequisite. Uh well, I I have a
background in regional economics, so of
course I already take a geographical
dimension very seriously. But there also
I think that the dragby report
uh can be criticized on that not taking
serious very seriously the territorial
dimension uh because as I explained
already before uh capabilities are very
much concentrated in particular areas.
So you cannot just uh assume that you
can uh uh pursue a one-sizefits-all
policy uh uh which would be good in
Europe and that we have that we can
think about designing competitive policy
without taking into consideration those
capabilities that are unevenly
distributed across regions in Europe. So
that should be the point of departure
and as soon as you do that you will have
much higher chances that you will be
successful in creating uh uh new
emerging technologies and you can
compete with the US and China in that
respect and this is I think what should
make be made part and partial of uh uh
uh uh
competitiveness uh uh policy and this is
I think what is a bit missing in the DRA
report. So uh we really should uh uh uh
uh focus more attention on that because
that is exactly the subnational scale is
exactly the right scale to pursue pursue
this this very effective competitiveness
policy. Well it's been absolutely
fascinating speaking with you R and I
could talk for many more hours. It's
such an interesting field that you're
you're looking at. So thank you very
much for your time. Appreciate it and uh
speak soon. Oh my pleasure. Thank you.
Take care.
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
