I mean, I'm a small government
conservative, right? Constitutional
conservative, and I I really do believe
in in this the state's rights. Um, and
and if there are particular issues where
they feel that they must step up, they
should. But AI is, as you said, I mean,
it it's not just interstate commerce.
This is this is global. Well, uh, being
one of the younger members in Congress
today, out of
435, I think I'm I'm not the youngest,
but I'm I think third youngest, you
know. Uh, I think I bring the average
age in in the United States House of
Representatives down by uh uh I think an
average of 25 years. It's it's no it's
no surprise that I'm very much a
supporter of President Trump and his
policies. And what I had seen out of the
previous administration under President
Biden was an arbitrary executive order
that basically scared all of the the AI
community. The emerging tech space is
very exciting. It is the it's the new
frontier and it's not just AI, right?
It's it's quantum, it's hypersonics,
it's nanotech, it's uh AR, it's VR, it
it's so many things.
Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast.
Join host Sanjay Puri as he explores the
dynamic and developing world of
artificial intelligence governance. Each
episode features deep dives with global
leaders at the forefront of regulating
AI responsibly, tackling the challenges
using AI can bring about head-on and
enabling balance without hindering
innovation.
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast.
The show dedicated to shaping AI policy
framework by engaging with policy makers
from around the globe. I am your host
Sanjay Puri. Today I have the distinct
honor of hosting Congresswoman Kat Kamak
who represents Florida's third
congressional district and has been an
influential advocate for individual
freedoms, small businesses, and national
security serving as one of the youngest
Republican women in Congress. She chairs
the RSC's emerging technologies task
force. Join us as we discuss critical
issues in AI policy, national security,
and more. Congresswoman, thank you so
much for joining us today. Hey, thanks
so much for having me and it's good to
see you again. Awesome. Uh,
Congresswoman, we have a global audience
uh of AI experts, policy makers, uh, AI
entrepreneurs. Uh, one of the questions
that came in was that what inspired your
initial interest in technology policy,
particularly AI?
Well, uh, being one of the younger
members in Congress today, out of
435, I think I'm I'm not the youngest,
but I'm I think third youngest, you
know, uh, I think I bring the average
age in in the United States House of
Representatives down by uh uh I think an
average of 25 years. So um I'm 37 and uh
you know have been working in the
government space for for a bit and um
have always noticed
that government has been exceptionally
uh reactive. Um always chasing a problem
rather than trying to help facilitate
development of technology. And you know,
being somebody who was born in 1988, I
grew up in in an era that was still
analog but coming into the digital age.
And so I I I kind of speak both
languages. Um had a MySpace, you know,
and and we talk about how, you know,
we've watched the evolution of social
media, but then the app market and and
and all the things that come with that.
It's important that we have legislators
at the highest level that are working to
facilitate all of the emerging
technologies and it's certainly AI. It's
been around for quite a while. It wasn't
really until um Chat GPT kind of made
their their presence, you know, on the
big stage that people started really
talking about it in serious ways, making
it more mainstream. But for those of us
that have been in tune to it, we've been
watching the development um for years
and it was frustrating to see a lack of
really forethought from a legislative
standpoint because it can it can very
quickly go to the wild west and then you
get your doomsdayers in the space that
want to shut everything down and that's
terrible for innovation. So, um, that's
really what inspired me to to get
involved in the space. Um, but more
importantly to lead because you you
really don't have a lot of folks that
can speak the language, understand it,
or even utilize it. And so, that's
something that's important to me and my
team. No, that's great to um know,
Congresswoman. Bringing the average age
down, bringing a lot of expertise
because um I think you can serve as an
uh expert for a lot of people because
you know members of Congress have to on
the same day deal with uh Ukraine, Gaza,
border security, AI, etc. So we it's
would be unfair to expect them to be an
expert, but having some people like you
makes a big difference. You brought up a
point about how you don't want uh the
doomsayer to take on. How does one
balance innovation but also keeping
guard rails? We want to make sure our
country stays at the cutting edge. But
obviously there needs to be some kind of
a balance and balance from uh bad things
happening but also balance from
concentration that it does not end up in
the hands of a few companies like we see
in social media. So your thoughts for
our listeners? uh congresswoman.
So, a couple things in that way. Um the
doomsday
uh mindset, it can be um I I don't want
to say that it's not justified because
there are legitimate concerns that we
have as it relates to bias. And I I mean
I I think Gemini rolling out was one of
the most disastrous rollouts we've seen.
you know, you had a black George
Washington and you know, I mean, people
were were pointing out some of the more
egregious, you know, flaws in their
language model and and I think it it
goes both ways. You have extreme bias on
both sides and you have to kind of find
that that sweet spot. I joke that um
when we're we are, you know, talking
about these language models and the
development of them, we've actually
found a use for philosophy majors um
talking about ethics. And of course,
every time I say that, there is someone
who has a philosophy degree that looks
at me and is like, "Hm, you're kind of a
jerk." Um, but, uh, it's true. We really
do have to have a conversation about the
ethics around building these language
models. um a and there are real world
consequences particularly as we utilize
them in the medical space and and
elsewhere where there are consequences
for models that have deliberate bias or
a predetermined outcome. So that's
something um that we really need to uh
we need to focus on. Um the other
element
of the doomsdayerish type mindset I
because not everybody is of that mindset
but there are legitimate concerns that
need to be addressed. you see the
federal government really struggling
with it because there's a lack of
understanding of the systems, how it
works, right? People don't think in in
in zeros and ones up here, right? And so
what you have as a result is people
going to their state legislatures and
then you have this patchwork of state
laws that then these companies that are
absolutely engaged in interstate and
global commerce, right? they then have
to abide by 50 different states laws
that are all over the map. And it's
really it's really scary because we're
seeing a trend across state legislatures
that is is moving in a direction towards
um more um more regulation which is
ultimately going to push out innovation.
And from the global security standpoint
that we're in this competition with
China for example um DeepSeek is a very
good example of where people are saying
oh well you know it doesn't need to you
know they did this with $5 million. Now
anyone who is involved in the industry
knows very well what is going on with
DeepSeek right? But then you have you
have this real tough push and pull going
on between the state legislators that
say, "Well, we need to regulate the hell
out of this. We need to protect our
people and our industries." Then we're
basically taking ourselves off the
playing field and we're allowing for
players like Deepsee and others to come
into the space which again is very very
scary from a national security
standpoint. So we have to be really
cognizant of that. There's something
else in this space that our team is
working on. Um Montana had a bill um
called right to compute and I think that
that is a great model for a national
model really protecting the right to
compute because that's ultimately what
the system is right and um so I I think
that that's really the the the position
that we and the federal government need
to take and then also become a proving
ground. We have a blockchain bill that
we are currently working through that
would require the implementation and use
of blockchain. And blockchain is a great
way for us to have that ledger and
because everyone talks about watermarks
and how are we defining what's real and
what's not. I'm sorry, watermarks are
not going to work, right? Um, anyone
knows that, anyone in the space knows
that. And so utilizing technologies like
blockchain is a way that we can have the
federal government be a proving ground
for AI technology and its use. And so
it's just a it's a multi-prong approach.
Sure. Well, you you uh made some uh very
very important points that kind of leads
to several questions. Just briefly uh
we've had state legislators. I've had
attorney generals from state come in. Um
so briefly I mean one of the things they
say hey the federal government is not
acting so I have to act
so that as you pointed out the patchwork
of laws think about big companies who
have deep budgets being able to manage
that but if I'm a twoerson company in
Florida in your congressional district
think about managing first interest rate
laws then international laws now EU has
an act so Just briefly, uh, we don't
have a federal law. State says, "Hey,
I'm jumping in." So, what is the balance
here, uh, Congresswoman? That's one
question. There's a few others, too.
Yeah. And this is I mean, I'm a small
government conservative, right?
Constitutional conservative. And I I
really do believe in in this the state's
rights. Um, and and if there are
particular issues where they feel that
they must step up, they should. But AI
is, as you said, I mean,
it it's not just interstate commerce.
This is this is global. And so we have
an obligation in the federal government
to establish a national standard. And I
can't tell you I've I've been around the
globe talking with counterparts. I I was
in India talking talking with Indian
officials there. I was in Italy um
giving a speech on AI talking with my my
counterparts in the EU and and
respective governments. They're waiting
on us to lead and our lack of leadership
in the space is forcing other
governments to take action which become
certain standards. And I'll be honest,
talking to a lot of the the the startups
in the space, the EU standards scare the
out of them. And it should. Sorry,
I cuss a lot. I'm from the country. Um
but um the the thing that is is so
important is that we have to protect
that space because the barrier to entry
if the regulatory environment is so
extreme. Your startups aren't going to
be able to compete. We're going to miss
opportunities. And so we need to make
sure we're protecting the little guys.
Um that it's very concerning to me when
Open AI, Google, Microsoft, etc. show up
in the space and say, "We love these
regulation ideas." You know, of course
they want to set the terms because it's
protecting the space for them. And so
that's something that we're fighting
against. I think that's why maybe a
national right to compute law would give
enough flexibility for people to
compete, enter the marketplace, but also
level the playing field so that you're
not constantly in this David and Goliath
situation or having to comply with 50
different states pieces of legislation.
Yeah. So national right to compute. Uh
one of the points you made also uh
Congresswoman is an important point. You
talked about deep seek that kind of
opens this whole conversation where AI
has become a national security a
geopolitical issue.
U we are as you know there is the whole
uh control of chips especially going out
to China. What are your thoughts in
terms of how AI is really front and
center from a national security uh
standpoint? You have a lot of expertise
in national security.
the thing the thing that um I feel is
missing in this conversation because
certainly we talk about you know the
race uh the race to lead and innovate
you know how we're in this this race for
autonomous vehicle leadership how we're
in this race on hypersonics on
quantum what few people talk about is
how we do that and that is through
energy the energy capability and in
order to get this done is enormous. And
let's just be honest, you're not going
to do it off of solar, right? And wind
and wind. Um, you have to have an above
all approach. So, you have to have a
complimentary energy policy that
facilitates that type of compute power.
Now, I love obviously I'm a little bit
biased towards Nvidia because, you know,
there's some UF grads um involved um and
they've been exceptionally wonderful to
um the my home university, University of
Florida. Um, but I love seeing the
innovation in in the chip space, right?
And we're seeing rapid development
overnight, but the number one thing I
keep coming back to is we have to have a
complimentary energy policy in order to
facilitate that. If you don't have the
energy in order to produce this, you're
not going to be competing. And it
doesn't matter how innovative we are,
how clever we are, it does not matter.
So we have to have that component taken
care of. Um you know we we are very
active in the space both from a defense
standpoint as well as a commerce space
in in semiconductor chips. Um there's a
lot that needs to happen and what we've
seen to date has been more of a check
the box exercise than a thoughtful
approach in how can we bring domestic
manufacturing into the space. Um and and
then of course the materials to do so.
We have to have the tax policy, the
energy policy, we have to have the
workforce. All of that leads up into how
we do this ultimately.
A comprehensive approach. And since you
talked about Nvidia, they announced a
major uh investment in Texas and uh
Arizona, not in Florida yet. Uh your
thoughts? Working on it. working
absolutely I mean because they are today
at the front and center of this
discussion of AI what are your thoughts
of companies like Nvidia saying okay
we're going to invest tens of billions
of dollars back in manufacturing in the
US so um is the uh policy of the
president working in terms of some of
these uh actions of doing this this uh
what are your thoughts of an
Absolutely. I mean, it's it's no it's no
surprise that I'm very much a supporter
of President Trump and his policies. And
what I had seen out of the previous
administration under President Biden was
an arbitrary executive order that
basically scared all of the the AI
community um because it was very um
cumbersome, right? And and it just it
wasn't well thought out. With the
recision of the executive order, the
Biden executive order, President Trump
said, "We're going to lead in this
space." And in his first 100 days, we've
seen over 5 trillion with a T5 trillion
of private investment being being
announced. That is huge because we know
that AI is going to be the player of the
future in every single industry from
healthcare to manufacturing to um
medical devices, pharmaceuticals,
um marketing, AI is here to stay and so
we have to be prepared and we have to
have the infrastructure here and of
course in Congress as I said we're
working on these policies like an energy
policy and a data privacy policy and you
all of these elements that really
facilitate the development of the
industry as a whole. So, I'm very much
supportive of it. I love I love the
investments. I mean, these are long-term
capital investments. And I'd say since
we're talking regulating AI and we are
the author of the Reigns Act, uh, which
is the largest regulatory reform effort
in American history. Um it it's really
important that we get the regulatory
environment right and um I don't know
when this is airing um but today is a
very big day in the regulatory space. Um
we had a a hybrid bill that we have
introduced called reclaiming the reigns
act. It's getting marked up today in the
judiciary committee and it not only
pulls back the regulatory authority on
major rules. So $100 million or more of
industry impact pulls that back from the
executive branch into Congress. So
Congress as elected officials we have to
up or down approve it. And I think
that's much better for vetting these
policies because these regulations have
tremendous impacts and often times
they're it's political in nature. So
this will take the pol the politics out
of it. So not only does the bill do
that, but then it retroactively looks
back and forces every agency to look at
20% of the major rules and regulations
currently on their books and they have
to send those to Congress for an up or
down vote. If they don't, those
regulations sunset. So that is so
critical for the long-term stability of
our markets. No one's going to make
billions of dollars in capital
investments unless there is certainty.
And I think that this moment that we're
going through today, it's not sexy. It's
not going to get headline news, but it
is going to be one of the most
consequential things that happens for
the next two decades, I would say. Oh,
well, we'll be watching for uh that uh
Congresswoman, and we'll be airing this
very soon. Um finally, uh Congresswoman,
you've been appointed as the chair of
the RSC's emerging tech uh platform. Now
you obviously have talked about some of
the things that you're very passionate
about using blockchain for you know
instead of um you know uh different
different technologies watermarking etc.
what are going to be some of the
priorities for you in this very
important role for our audience to kind
of know.
So, the emerging tech task force, I'm I
was so excited to be able to uh chair it
and and we're going to have two years of
really fast and furious work because the
emerging tech space is very exciting. It
is the it's the new frontier and it's
not just AI, right? It's it's quantum,
it's hypersonics, it's nanotech, it's uh
AR, it's VR, it it's so many things. And
so, as I said at the very beginning, we
were talking about there's really a lack
of
understanding amongst the decision
makers, the lawmakers of the technology.
And if you don't understand, have a
basic understanding of the technology,
you have really no business trying to
regulate it or formulate legislation
around it. And so our goal is first and
foremost to bring in experts and bring
in the leaders of the space, different
companies that are working in these
respective spaces and educate members of
Congress as well as their staff on the
technology today, but also where it's
headed. And then as a task force, we're
going to be developing really the suite
of legislation that is going to go
forward in helping facilitate these
respective industries and sectors to
flourish. We want to lead across the
board. Whether it's in autonomous
vehicles, whether it's in AI, cyber
security, it does not matter. America
wants to lead and needs to lead. And so
we have a very unique opportunity with a
strong majority in the House and Senate
and of course President Trump in the
White House. So we have an opportunity
to actually set the stage for the next
25 years.
Oh, that's uh fantastic. Uh
Congresswoman, uh something that came in
from uh your district was what role do
you see AI playing in the rural
communities? We all talk about all these
big sexy things etc. But from an
agriculture rural community, some of the
things you deal with. What is your
vision for, you know, basic things uh
that are very very important? Oh gosh,
there's there's a a number of things. I
mean, right off the top of my head, I do
represent a heavily agricultural
district and I will tell you the AI
technology in a it is incredible. um you
know our our farmers and ranchers were
the original innovators and it wasn't
because uh of any other reason than
survival. You had to innovate in order
to survive. And so talking about new new
developments in the a space um I use the
sea and spray technology as a great
example of this. It's about being more
efficient with the resources that we
have. So, um, uh, John Deere came out
with a, uh, it's a like a 20ft boom on
each side. It's incredible. I got to
drive this tractor. And, um, and as, as
you're going through the field, you have
an AI system that is matched up with
sensors that can per plant in
milliseconds determine the the water
level of the soil. Does it need an
herbicide or a fertilizer or a
pesticide? like it's going plant by
plant. So, it's individualizing the
needs of every single plant in that crop
in that field. And so, it's just being
more efficient with resources. And
again, in a time when we're dealing with
inflation, we're dealing with an
excessive regulatory environment, having
that type of AI technology of CN
spray, it's revolutionary. It not only
will help our our producers to be more
productive and have higher yields and
less costs, but it's ultimately going to
trickle down to consumers in the long
run. We also see ways that AI is going
to mechanize um uh agriculture is
heavily um manual labor um based. And so
I've seen systems that we have AIs that
um are driving robotics to pick um
specialty crops. In a state like
Florida, we have 300 specialty crops
every year. This is the type of
technology just in the agricultural
sector that we are seeing. But then you
talk about rural healthcare, there's a
real lack of access in these
communities. One of the ways that I see
AI playing a huge role is filling some
of those gaps. We have systems that now
can not take the place of a radiologist,
but augment their their services. So,
you can have AI reading your scans and
picking up on things that may have been
missed. And it's a way to really
maximize someone's time and ability to
see more patients. So, I think I just
think there's incredible opportunities
in rural communities, not just in
America, but globally. So I'm very
encouraged by healthy and smart adoption
in spaces and governments that are
willing to actually facilitate rather
than debilitate.
That's exciting. Uh because you know you
talked about such important things as
you said crop development and you know
higher yields you talked about health
care which is very very critical. I mean
you
basically most people in rural areas now
have a GP on their phone so to speak a
general practitioner. Yes. And then
think about educ I mean I'm sure you're
thinking about education for every kid
out there even in small very rural
communities the same access as somebody
in maybe even in Harvard and MIT because
now you can't access and maybe
personalized education. So uh very very
exciting because we talk about big
things but these are the things I think
congressman as you rightly pointed that
matter. So thank you so much uh
Congresswoman. I know how busy you are
but your insights into the complexities
and necessities of AI regulation while
keeping innovation going is uh very very
important and uh we hope to speak with
you again soon and thank you to our
listeners for joining us for the
regulating yacht podcast and thank you
very much again for coming on uh
Congresswoman. I appreciate it. Thanks
so much. Take care. Thanks. Have a great
day. Bye.
[Music]
