We set up a supervised test bed, a sort
of environment where regulation is
loosened a little bit to experiment, not
experiment at scale, but experiment in
small ways. Uh allowing companies,
schools, hospitals, and agencies to use
AI tools using real guard rails. The
idea is that we provide a little sandbox
before it becomes a whole beach, before
the sand scales up so we can get it
right.
Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast
with Sanjay Puri. AI is changing the
world faster than rules can keep up. So,
how do we protect people without killing
progress? Each week, Sanjay brings you
inside conversations with global
leaders, policy makers, and innovators
who are wrestling with that exact
question. So, if you're curious about
the future of technology and how it's
governed, you're in the right place.
[Music]
Today's guest is Governor Matt Meyer,
Delaware's 76th governor, a former
teacher, startup founder, and a diplomat
who's now leading the way on responsible
AI governance. He's turned Delaware into
an AI innovation hub, launching the
nation's first open AI partnership for
students and workers, and building an AI
sandbox to guide ethical adoption. A
leader with heart and vision. He's
redefining what it means for a state to
lead in the age of AI.
>> Governor Meyer, thank you so much for
joining us on regulating AI.
>> Hey, thank you Sanjay. It it's great to
be here and congratulations on
everything you've done with the podcast
is playing a critical role in informing
the public and decision makers like me
on the latest greatest stuff that's out
there and how we need to act on it. So,
I appreciate it. one uh you know you've
worn so many different hats over a
period of time teacher, entrepreneur,
diplomat, county exec. What are some of
the principles from those experience
that are guiding and shaping you uh from
setting up AI governance today?
>> First and foremost is don't run away
from new things and new technology. It
can be really scary. I mean you can
imagine I I was 20
30 years ago I was starting a a footwear
company in Nairobi Kenya and we were
selling sandals just kind of locally in
Nairobi. a dream of making sandals and
selling them all over the world. And the
worldwide web was just coming of age and
uh some guy in the west coast of the US
started selling books out of his garage
online. Uh, and from that, you know,
there was there were we're like, "Oh my
god, like what if big companies start
selling footwear and there's online and
to Kenya and there's no chance we're
going to be able to succeed." But we
found we could embrace it and take
advantage of it. We ended up growing our
business to to a business with with 30
employees selling in 17 countries from a
little uh really poor neighborhood in
Nairobi. Listen, I'm enthusiastic about
technology generally, but I'm more
interested in what it does for people.
There has to be some people impact of
that. I learned from that as a young guy
that the value of the worldwide web, the
value of e-commerce is what it actually
does and means to people. There's no
there's no end or or value to AI itself.
AI is not a destiny. It's a tool. And
our job and my job is to figure out how
do we make it a useful one. How do we
make it a tool that actually improves
lives and doesn't ruin lives? You know,
you've been in the uh job very very
recently, but you moved so quickly in
launch uh on AI and launching workforce
programs, certification pathways, AI
sandbox. I'm sure you got many things up
your sleeve coming up. Why did you
decide that Delaware should lead you
know as a small state rather than follow
and what's your overarching vision for
you know state-led AI governance
>> you know I learned both as a small
business owner and as a teacher Sanjay
you you want to be the first to value
not the first to hype there's certainly
in my business there's an inclination to
be the first to hype the first to have
the latest greatest social media post or
whatever to grab grab the headlines,
throw an event. Um, I'm less interested
in in that. The key is how do we pilot
something fast? How do we measure it
honestly? And how do we scale what's
what works? And I think w with an
unknown uh tool like artificial
intelligence, we want to make sure we're
we're doing that. The quicker we can get
products to and things and services and
new tools to market, the quicker we can
get either government workers or the
broader public at large to use it with
appropriate guard rails, the more we'll
we'll have feedback, the more um AI can
iterate, the tools can iterate, not just
iterate the technology, but iterate the
human uses so we understand, oh, this
great thing that we think can be of
tremendous benefit, maybe isn't really
of benefit, but this other thing we
never really thought of. This is how
people are using it. So, we're eager to
be we're we're known as the first state.
Delaware is the first state of the 50
United States to sign the Constitution
and we're eager to be the first in AI as
well.
>> Do you ever worry that there is too much
hype on AI? Uh, Governor,
>> I do worry there's too much hype in AI.
I worry that many people see artificial
intelligence as an end. I I worry that
many people making key decisions don't
really understand a AI and machine
learning. I have the benefit that in
college I actually programmed in list
that that is the basis of it and what I
learned from that or one thing I learned
from that experience is that but
artificial intelligence isn't really
intelligence. It's building machine
models. It's building bits and bites to
try and replicate really how humans
think just thought processes and they
can be built and they can learn in any
way in which we we direct them and we
can put guard rails on them uh in any
way in which we direct them and it's
really important we do that. There's
also we have to be honest about there's
a serious profit motive out there. This
is this is billion trillion dollar
market we're talking about and there are
a lot of people out there trying to make
a buck. They're not looking out for the
for the welfare of Delawarians or
Americans or humans. They're looking to
do whatever they can to make a buck. And
we have a serious responsibility in
putting up guard rails to make sure that
that humans that that Delawarians that
Americans are protected. I mean people
are saying hey we're going to have
thousands millions of agents uh these
guys these agents are going to report to
employees and other stuff etc. Uh it's
going to be a huge huge benefit. Any
thoughts on AI agents? Uh governor?
>> Yeah. One of my greatest concerns with
AI is job loss. That if we're if we're
introducing new technologies that make
it uh difficult or impossible for a
large number or a majority of
Delawareians to get up in the morning
and earn a living, you're not going to
see much support from me. So, I think
Agentic AI is exciting in so far as we
can really identify what the human
benefit is. I'm I'm open to
experimentation to putting a few things
out there with appropriate guardrails,
ensuring saying this will not cause any
job loss. There's not a single human in
Delaware who will lose their job because
the introduction of this technology and
then monitoring and seeing how can we
create meaningful
efficiencies because if there is going
to be um job loss, we have to make sure
it's really job dislocation. I don't
think I don't know if you remember eight
track tapes. I don't think we need to be
listening to music on eight track tapes
from generation to generation. Whoever's
making eight track tapes might lose
their job so that people who's making
cassette tapes can get the jobs and then
people who are making CDs can take over
from them and the people making digital
music can take over from them and
downloadable. I think that progression
is fine but we just need to protect
people through the process. We need to
make sure that the folks making
eighttrack tapes, the folks doing work
that may be overtaken by Agentic AI have
substantial opportunity to be retrained,
to be upskilled, to maybe program some
of the engines or provide maintenance to
some of the agentic AI engines because
certainly there will be need for
maintenance or work at data centers that
are ultimately fueling these. So, I
think that's really where we're looking.
It it's it's okay uh to introduce things
that could in time make production
processes more efficient, but we got to
make sure we're putting people first
when we do that.
>> And some of our uh listeners when they
knew you were coming on have uh
expressed some concerns about regulatory
capture and wanted to know what
safeguards are in place. So these
partnerships are public as you said
putting people first. So talk a little
bit to our audience about that. So
Delaware is the first state to partner
with Open AI on its AI certification
program. So students, teachers, and
workers can prove realw world AI fluency
from basic workplace use to advanced
skills like prompt engineering. If you
think back to sort of when I was in in
high school, there was this new product
Microsoft Word and whoever got trained
on it quickly, remember everybody used
to put u Microsoft Word proficient on
their resume. It was a it was a feather
in your cap. What we're trying to do is
enable as many Delawarians as possible
to be able to put that feather in their
in their cap earlier than than residents
of other states and other countries.
people can prepare and test inside
what's called chat GBT's study mode in
this partnership with OpenAI. It it it
sort of meets learners where they are
for people that don't have much
experience or knowledge of of chat bots
and chat GBT and it lowers some of the
costs and friction of of learning. We're
running it through an office of
workforce development so that deals with
some of the job loss concerns. The
credentiing is really based on
upskilling workers to get better jobs
and better pay uh with on-ramps into
high schools, community college, adult
education, library um and and other
areas. Um the bottom line is this is
going to be an opportunity to to pilot
um ed an educational process, a
workforce development process, and we're
going to look at it closely. We feel
like we've put up guard rails to make
sure that privacy, that safety, and that
job loss is is protected. Uh, but we're
going to watch it closely and and see
what happens. The the advantage of being
the first is you can provide tremendous
benefit to your state to to constituents
over other states. The downside is there
there we're honest that there may be
some missteps. We have to be measuring
constantly and recalibrating as well.
you also now
put together an AI sandbox. So for our
uh listeners or entrepreneurs uh who are
out there and looking at Delaware which
as you said you want companies to come
in uh to Delaware to build systems in
Delaware. What problems uh does it
dearest and who gets to participate in
that sandbox?
>> If you ask me Delaware is number one in
everything. We have the best food. We
have the best sports teams. We have the
best universities, high schools, middle
schools. I understand if you ask other
people, they may not agree with me on
everything, but they will agree with me
that Delaware is first really in the
country and in the world in in
corporations. We are the corporate home
for twothirds of the Fortune 500, the
largest 500 companies in in the world.
PE um pretty much any company doing
business in in the US uh either
incorporates in Delaware or in in rare
cases chooses to incorporate wherever
their headquarters is. As a result of
that, we have scale in in corporate
governance for many of the leading
corporations in the world. We're making
the rules. We have the court system that
governs many of the complex corporate
decision making that's done every day in
the modern business world. Obviously AI
is increasingly part of that
decision-making process. Agentic AI as
you as you referenced. We want to make
sure that we're not rejecting these new
technologies wholesale but we're
including them in our regulatory
processes. So what we did, it's a long
way of saying we set up a supervised
test bed, a sort of environment where
regulation is loosened a little bit to
experiment, not experiment at scale, but
experiment in small ways. Uh allowing
companies, schools, hospitals and
agencies to use AI tools using real
guard rails. It temporary regulatory
flexibility paired with consumer uh
protections. The idea is that we provide
a little sandbox before it becomes a
whole beach before the sand scales up so
we can get it right. Delaware is the
leader globally in corporate governance
law. People around the world look to
Delaware corporate law decisions in our
our statute. Um, we have the best
lawyers and judges in the world and we
have a unique opportunity to work with
the tech industry to understand how the
business utilization of AI interacts
with corporate governance with actual
governance of corporations. Can you have
a board member sit in a room uh who's
that's an AI engine and helping to make
decisions? I I would hazard to guess
that many companies have that now, but
it's somebody just sort of quietly
sitting on a laptop, you know, typing
queries into Perplexity or Chat GBT.
What we're saying is can maybe can we
have an AI seat at the table just as
often in Zoom calls and stuff you have
your AI notetakers and can that have
some legal relevance and where do we put
that? Listen, we already know companies
are using Agentic AI in a variety of
ways. Retail companies are using AI
agents to negotiate contracts for
logistical supply chains.
Um, agents are creating LLC's and and uh
limited liability companies and various
entities and in some cases managing
them. We don't have all the answers yet.
Uh, but Delaware is definitely the place
to discover the right way to develop
responsible products fit for business
that can protect uh and ultimately
support and assist customers around the
globe. Do you think uh AI or AI agents
should have a seat on the uh board?
>> How does it help human beings if having
an AI board member sit at the table is
going to help corporate governance to be
more honest, more transparent, produce
efficiencies that are good for
stakeholders in a company, for
employees, for shareholders, and
especially for customers, then we think
it's a good thing. If it creates risk,
if it if the safeguards are not there in
terms of privacy and consumer safety, if
there are ethics concerns that the the
one thing I don't believe any AI engine
has figured out is how to really develop
a a true sense of morality and ethics
and I think that's vitally important in
any corporate board seat. And if we
don't figure that that problem out, then
uh maybe it's not a good idea. So for
me, the jury's out. I I think you can
think of situations where having an AI
engine could be tremendously helpful to
do complex corporate decision- making
very quickly, efficiently that moves
companies and our our business sector,
various business sectors forward that
maybe even makes life, you know, and and
communities healthier. If you think of
like health tech sector um and and
various chemical pharmaceutical
technologies that could really help
people move forward but uh I'm not all
there yet. I got to see what human
benefit is. Let me give you one example
that's not directly related related to
our sandbox. I was a sixth and seventh
grade math teacher 10 years ago and we
spend about 24 days in a school year
with kids sitting uh doing standardized
tests. Right today things have changed a
little bit in the last 10 years in
Delaware but not much. Mostly kids are
spending an awful lot of school days
doing standardized tests. I think that's
crazy. I think in a world where there
are AI education tutors, we should be
able to utilize that technology to get
very valuable real time assessments of
what students in our public schools know
and don't know. Um, that would have
tremendous human benefit, but it's just
an idea. It's an idea we have down on a
piece of paper. Whether it actually
works in practice yet or not, we're not
sure. We're looking to have a small
pilot of that and then we'll scale it
and like like a number of AI tools we're
just looking to here's an idea let's
test it out with guard rails if it works
great if not let's learn and move on
>> should there be mandatory
training of some sort for corporate
boards because you can't assume the
board members all are AI but at least
for them to know about AI boards at
least some level of education should be
there what what is your thoughts on that
>> I am in the democratic party. But I I
have some libertarian beliefs. Companies
that are not incorporating AI, it's just
like if you go back 30 years, if you
weren't incorporating it, there were
there weren't many IT departments 30,
35, 40 years ago. If you didn't develop
an IT department and do it quickly, your
company was going to was going to go out
of business pretty quickly. And so my
expectation is in many industries AI is
going to be like that that either you
you adopt AI tools or you don't at your
peril
>> issue right now what state regulations
versus federal regulation as you know in
the big beautiful bill there was a
attempt to make to put a moratorium for
10 years that states would not be able
to put any kind of AI regulation where
do you come out on states having the
ability to uh regulate AI versus that
the federal perspective
>> I'm a huge fan of of you know something
that's been a core principle of our
country since its founding and that is
we have 50 laboratories of
experimentation. We have 50 places where
people can do things differently. Some
states have decided to legalize
marijuana. Other states don't think
that's right. Some states liquor stores
aren't open on Sundays. Other states
think some states New Mexico just made
child care free. Other states don't do
that. We can all look at each other and
we many of us as governors and state
legislators, elected officials and
members of the public look at other
states and say, "Hey, look at this cool
thing New Mexico, Nevada or Nebraska is
doing. Let's do that." Or look at this
thing that that South Carolina or
Pennsylvania is doing. Let's not do
that. I think it's really important. So,
I I I'm glad that ultimately did not
make it in the into the bill into the
federal bill. I think it's important
especially when there's new technology
like this. give states the opportunity
to experiment. I think what we'll see
over time is some regulatory structures,
some pilots really working and some not
working and and states will tend to
adopt the ones that work and if they
don't then federal regulation can come
in.
>> Just shifting more at a broader level,
uh governor, you know, Deliver was one
of the first states to criminalize
election deep fakes. Um, how do you see
AI shaping threats to democracy more
broadly? And what role should states
have in protecting electoral integrity?
>> Yeah, I I think it's key and I think
that's an area where the federal
government should act as well.
Um, and it's not there are certainly new
aspects to it with deep fakes, but it's
not totally new things like doctoring
pictures, right? and even doctoring
videos. The technology has been around
to do that for for years now. The things
you can do now just on on in your in the
palm of your hand in a matter of
seconds, minutes or hours is
extraordinary and is dangerous. And I
think we need to take an active role.
You can envision a world where a
government that does not strictly
regulate this stuff really loses its
democracy. where one very smart creative
programmer or digital designer can take
over an entire society uh and we got to
make sure we regulate so that never
happens.
>> Governor, looking at uh the global
perspective, I know you are in Delaware.
You know the European Union has its AI
act. China is doing its own thing within
the US obviously our focus is on uh
states uh like yours who are doing
things. Should there be some kind of a
harmonization globally, you know, for
companies that are kind of trying to
figure out, hey, what all do I need to
be in compliance with, etc. What are
your thoughts in some kind of a
harmonization standards or something?
>> I it's a good question. Uh, I I I don't
have strong feelings about it. It makes
sense for there to be a a a a
baseline of safety, security, privacy
that uh you know major jurisdictions
that that our largest countries, the
most frequent users of AI all subscribe
to. That makes sense to me. Uh it's it's
it's uh uh I know like privacy can be a
nightmare for companies doing business
in Europe and the US. Technology
companies that are like we don't really
care where someone's using except for
the language they're using it in. It's
the same thing. Uh but they need to
change all these things because every
jurisdiction has different privacy laws
for example. So I think some some
standardization would make sense.
>> Wonderful.
So, uh, Governor, should advanced AI
systems require government approval
before public deployment? Yes or no?
>> No.
>> Okay. Uh, should algorithmic audits be
mandatory for AI used in hiring or
employment decisions?
>> Should they be mandatory? No. I told you
I'm a libertarian.
>> Cool. Uh, should states have the
authority to ban AI applications they
consider too risky?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Is current federal oversight
sufficient to manage emerging AI risk?
>> No.
>> Okay. Should AI companies be required to
disclose their safety testing protocols?
>> Yes.
>> Do you think uh Governor, we kind of
touched on this way AI ultimately create
more jobs than it eliminates in the next
decade?
>> I think it will. Yes.
>> Should the US establish a dedicated
federal AI safety agency similar to the
FDA?
>> Okay.
And should all AI generated content be
clearly labeled as such that it is AI
generated?
>> Yes.
>> And should AI developers be held legally
liable for downstream harms caused by
their systems?
>> Uh I'm going to plead the fifth maybe. I
don't. That's a tough one. That's a
tough one.
>> It's it's uh fact specific. In some
instances, yes, and others no.
>> Sounds good. Now, Governor uh your peers
around the world, what would be one
thing that you would uh tell them from
your experiences? As I said, you've done
the certification, the sandbox, you're
kind of at the cutting edge. What would
be a message for you to them? Government
>> fear as as AI really sweeps across
global markets, we can't be driven by
fear. We have to be driven by
opportunity. But real be realistic about
the guardrails. That means move move
fast. Look at what um the startup guys
do and behave in government and in
regulatory processes a little bit like
them. Move quickly. You might break some
things, but you need systems to quickly
course correct. And that's that's the
approach we're taking. We're fortunate.
Delaware is unique. We're a smart we're
a small place. It's we call ourselves a
state of neighbors where everyone's
dated, mated, related. we can get
everybody in a room and move quickly
with regulatory structures. We can be
nimble and so we have that advantage.
It's an advantage that that numerous,
you know, large companies when they
started as small companies took
advantage of and that's what we're
looking to do here. But I think other
larger governments can do it as well.
put don't don't be there's a a
temptation particularly in government to
just be be bogged down by all the fears
and all the regulatory structure you can
put to really confine an industry which
may have tremendous human benefit in
terms of saving lives in terms of
creating wealth and efficiencies across
society. So look at it as a huge
opportunity but be be go enter it with a
critical mind um measure and take the
appropriate steps to protect people
>> for our audience he's a Emmy winner for
his documentary now from Emmy winner
you've gone to an AI pioneer governor so
really that's fantastic thanks for a
masterclass in building a responsible AI
state where innovation truly you paired
it with accountability and for our
audience of policy shapers and AI
leaders. Delaware's model, you know, AI
sandboxing with equity metric uh
portable credentials and clear guard
rail, you know, offers a pragmatic
blueprint that others can adopt. So,
thank you so much, uh, Governor, for
being on the regulating AI podcast and
for sharing what you do, and we're
hoping to have you back again with us.
>> Great. Thanks so much, Shandre, and
thank you to all the listeners. Stay
engaged. There's an exciting future in
front of us.
>> Thank you, Governor.
Thanks for tuning in to the Regulating
AI podcast with Sanjay Puri. If you
enjoy today's conversation, don't forget
to leave a comment. We'd love to hear
what you thought. Share it with someone
curious about the future of EI. And join
us next time for more stories and
insights from the leaders shaping what's
ahead right here on the Regulating AI
podcast.
