Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, now you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as I've said many, many times,
this is just a group of students and
young professionals who are very
interested in technology. It's
regulation, but today specifically, I
swear it's just about tech. I am now met
and joined by my colleague Jakamo. Hi
Jakamo. Hello. Nice to see you. Hi
Rosie, nice to see you as well.
>> Pleasure to see you. I'm so happy
because we are interviewing a person
that's I mean I found him on LinkedIn
and I'm super interested to know more.
So hello Niko Beho. Very nice surname.
Welcome to Legal for Tech the podcast.
>> Thank you Rosalia. Thank you Jako for
the invite. It's a pleasure having a
time to speak with you.
>> Absolutely. Thank you so much. And I
mean our listeners need to know why I
was so influenced and drawn towards your
profile because what you do is simply
phenomenal. So tell us all.
>> So I'm I'm the co-founder of a of a
startup a Spanish startup that was h we
started three months ago. not not that
much but we are doing something that
it's like
a really a really thrilled environment
for SEO. So h people are are used to or
were used to searching uh through Google
uh they they go and and search for
example uh comfortable shoes let's say
that's a keyword but now they are we are
seeing a a shift in this type of of
search people are not searching anymore
they are asking they are asking directly
to the AIS such as Chad GPT Gemini
perplexity so what we are seeing Instead
of asking uh comfortable shoes, they are
they are saying my feet hurt what
comfortable shoes can you recommend. So
they are they are asking and the AI is
answering and if brands don't appear in
those answers they are losing
visibility. So that's why we built a
tool that is capable of tracking AI
mentions AI positioning how your brand
is positioning on AI generated answer
and this brand this tool sorry it's
called LLM of metrics. So LLM is large
language model and the O stands for
optimization and metrics. So because we
we measure what what the the the AI is
is saying about your brand. So we we
encourage brands to start tracking these
kind of of of responses to see how the
the their clients are asking and to see
how they are uh making decisions because
we are changing it's like a a paradox
that is people are taking information
from AI and taking making decisions
based on th on those answers. So it's
utterly important to appear there
>> working with this new new platform. Uh
what what results have you come across?
>> So what we are seeing is that authority
brand authority brand um brand
uniqueness is something that drives the
attention of the AI. If you if you do
copycats, you won't appear. That's a
that's like a law. So, uh uh brand
authority is something that um AI takes
into account very seriously reputation.
So uh what we are seeing that brands
that already had this erh that that were
already taking this seriously their
brand authority erh appearing in many
places brand awareness are the ones that
are taking the the lead in this race.
Erh so they when they start using LLMO
metrics or other tools there there are a
few a few startups covering these this
um this segment of the market when they
start using these tools they they they
they see that they are I they are
already appearing on those AR generated
answers whereas with big brands that
they were thinking that with a logo and
a and already Erh and a a good product
perhaps but with no brand awareness with
no uh presence on on social media
perhaps or or a blog they are not
appearing and this is happening with a
with very big brands that small players
are taking their places in AI generated
dancers. So this is something that h
brands have to take into account on
their marketing uh strategy. So it's not
about SEO anymore. It's like SEO but the
evolution of SEO. So it's generative
engine optimization or large language
model optimization. It has many names.
>> Um in terms of the type of sources that
um these LLM use um for example to find
the brand say like I'm looking for a
shoe brand. I'm like hi I'm a say
student. I like running. I'm looking for
some shoes. I do long distances. I live
in a quite rainy city and the LM sayd
comes out with um an answer. Um are you
noticing that they use mostly sources
that are for example from the Sue brand
um kind of website or is it more for
example content that's being sponsored
by influencers? Is it more like um
natural content? Is it more
advertisement content? what like can you
can you see this or do or do you just
come out with um an answer to which
brand um has most visualizations?
>> Okay, so it's it's a a sort of
everything at the same time. What we are
seeing is that if you promote only your
brand, AI won't take this source into
account when trying to build an answer.
What we have to think is that AI wants
to give the best response it can. So uh
it will go and fetch the sources that
provides the best answers. That is if in
the prompt the the user is asking for
comfortable shoes that are uh waterproof
and might be suitable for I don't know
rainy cities. So the the sources that
provide that information apart from erh
doing promotions of a certain brand uh
will be the ones that are going to be
taken into account. Whereas a a a source
or a site that talks about comfortable
shoes but lacks of information of
weathering
concerning the shoes and so on. I don't
know if I if I might explaining myself,
but what I'm trying to say is as a the
more accurate your response is to the
prompt or to the answer to the question
the the user is asking, the more h
percentage you have of appearing in
those of being the source
sites. Okay. So it's very important to
start monitoring to start knowing which
prompts which questions is your user
your end user asking the AI because that
will give you the the the lead on what
what content you should be creating in
order to appear in the to be the answer.
Okay, what we are looking for is being
the answer. So this is like a the
backtrack content strategies m must do
now not not try to figure out what to
say about the product but knowing which
questions the user is asking in order to
see if they can provide a good answer to
become the answer the AI takes into
account when responding those questions.
Can I also ask you uh just out of
curiosity, how do you help brands
achieve visibility in AI generated
answer? I don't know for example you
have a an example from a from a client a
company that uh work with you
>> um I can give you an an answer based on
my on my own companies. It's not I I
think uh that's the most outstanding
example. I have a an AI company that
provides AI analytics for the water
industry. So it's a it's another it's a
spin-off from the from the holding that
is the one that gave birth to LMO
metrics. This company this spin-off it's
called groundwater AI. So we do AI
analytics for the groundwater industry.
Uh we optimize we we we
gain sustainability in in water pumps
and so on. What we do when we started a
few months ago, we started doing a
content strategy that was focusing
that was focusing on AI answers. So we
start tracking with with the proto LMO
the beta version the beta version of LMO
metrics. We start tracking these these
questions our bio personas were asking
and we start creating content targeting
those questions and in about a month
prior of of of launching we were
appearing on on AI generated answers. So
this is the example of a an an unknown
brand that h pops into the market but
start doing h their content uh focused
on these h these new channels. Okay.
Whereas you have an example that we are
we are working with with PNG now in in
LATAM and we already this was the topic
that you are you are already a big
company that has already covered the the
issue of brand awareness. It has already
covered the issue of
appearing and having authority. So you
you are already appearing in in a in
several questions, several answers and
so in this case you have to be like more
like a surgeon. You have to go to
specific prompts
thinking of SEO
you have to tackle specific queries
specific questions. So this is like more
uh more difficult uh to to boost a brand
like PNG that is uh boosting an unknown
brand. So this is the two the two sides
of a same coin. Okay. I don't know if if
that's a saying in English. In Spanish
we have
Mona. So you have the unknown brand that
can take so long to appear or can be if
if things are are are done correctly it
takes like a few weeks to appear. So
it's this one with groundwater AI we are
we were unknown and we start appearing
when people ask AI analytics for the
water industry in Spain for example.
Okay. And we have the site uh PNG that
it's already appearing in the mayor of
questions but in specific ones that are
main mainly some products or specific
products they want to to appear on those
answers when someone ask for example
which is which which is the best shampoo
to prevent I don't know hair loss let's
say we don't track that but they want
they want to see if they appear already
there or their product it's appearing.
So this is more specific than tracking a
whole brand. Okay. So it's it's based on
on the
on the the time that the that brand
takes to appear. It's based on on the on
the goal the brand has.
>> Okay.
um when you look at something like say
um Google AI, so something that's like
appearing on top of a search page on
Google when you ask for specific things.
Um would you say that the type of
results that appear first on Google, so
Gemini AI are not the same ones that
would have appeared on top of the Google
page if like before the so if I made the
search beforehand?
Well, it it has a a variety. When you
say Google AI, you mean AI overviews,
right? The one the chunk of information
that appears uh right below the the
input. H you find you you can see the
sources
that that the that Gemini checked uh
when when when crafting that answer. So
you will see that many are uh on the top
10 of the of the search results but uh
many others h are on the second or the
third page because it builds like an
answer based on a specific parts of each
article. Let's say the entire h the
entire sources are blocks maybe. So uh
what Gemini does is go to the first uh
to the first page.
It's the first that is taken into
account revise review the the article
and say okay I can answer one part of
the question with this chunk of
information and and collects that then
it goes to the second if if in the
second page it doesn't find a good a
good answer it it jumps to the and so
on. Okay. So it builds an entire erh
response with many different sources. So
appearing the first one it doesn't
guarantee guarantee that you will be the
answer. You have to focus because
appearing the first one it might be not
only about the content but also the
structure of your website, the speed of
your website. So there are many erh SEO
metrics that might uh boost your your
ranking in traditional SEO. But this is
like a new frontier. These these AIs
take into account content rather than
rather than traditional SEO parameters.
Okay, they are already they are also
important but it it will have to do the
most with the uh quality of the content.
So the nine uh the ninth page of the of
the ranking might have better content
than the second one. So that will that
will influence the the chunk of
information the AI overview choose to
provide an answer. I don't know if I
answered the question correctly.
>> Yes, it made a lot of sense. I also
wanted to ask you in terms of values
that the AI tends to prioritize. say
that for example ask for a good brand of
um beauty products. Um the word good can
entail many things. For example, it
could be good for my skin. So like um
really light in terms of types of
adjectives that it uses or it could be
good in terms of resistance so that for
example if I go swimming it stays on. It
could be good in terms of animal
testing. Yeah.
>> Um,
>> have you noticed that I don't know for
example there are some AI
AI MLMs that are a bit more woke than
others or or is this just like a frenzy?
>> No, I I I I I've never thought about
that. uh going to the first part of the
question uh brand authority is
everything and if you are not uh as
precise as h as it requires you will get
a broad answer. Okay. So if you only say
h recommend good products the AI will go
to the uh reviews for example the the
the one with the most outstanding
reviews will be the one that it it
appears at the first position. Okay. As
soon as you start pre being more precise
with your prompt for example okay if you
if you talk about cosmetics you are
saying a good product but that is also
good with animal testing. Okay. So you
are being more precise with your query.
So the AI specifies more and takes that
into account when when trying to choose
the the best cosmetic product to to
recommend to yourself.
when going to the to the woke uh point.
I've never I've never tried to track
that. Um it's not something I taking
into account when when trying to to
monitor AI.
>> It's interesting because so many times
we hear about AI having an embedded
bias. So I was wondering if there were
biases that kind of like led the
consumer into a direction regardless of
how precise they are. Um so like if you
don't ask for something specifically um
animal testing free if like it would
kind of lead you into that direction
because the general public and the
general bias is that these type of
products are better and normally also
more expensive I have to say than the
type of products that don't have this
specific um clarification within their
um kind of um declaration of the
product. So that that was the reason
behind the question. Uh just clarifying.
>> Okay. So the the AI has a a very a very
good a very well set boundaries in terms
of talking about politics, talking about
religion, talking about I don't know
humankind
in terms of races for example.
So sorry mankind in terms of races. So
that that's some some topics AI won't
enter won't won't debate uh about that.
But when it comes to product features or
product advantages I think if the brand
communicates that they what they are not
testing with animals
that's something the AI might consider
relevant when it comes to position one
brand against another as a as an option.
So it all depends what you ask on your
front. If you say recommend me a product
that is that it's related to Donald
Trump in terms of I don't know or that
is fond of Donald Trump. So that's
something that the AI the first response
would be I don't talk about politics. If
you want some certain specifications of
a product that I don't know might be
more ecological than other. Uh so that's
how an answer of an AI will shift from
if you try to like to take the AI to a
I don't know how to say in Spanish is
tero pantanoso. So like if you try to
take the AI to a swamp
>> the AI will try to get out of the swamp.
Okay. So they have a a very very well
set boundaries in terms of politics
religion and so on.
looking uh at the the future in the next
years uh how do you see the intersection
between AI and search going in the next
I don't know five years two three years
in the in the next years I I would say
yeah
>> yeah so five years might be very bold
from my side to to try to predict but
two years it's it's okay we talk about
this year okay so AI will take the major
leap of uh of of what we
what we remember in terms of search AI
in a in a few months have have reached
the volumes of search Google was having
on 2009. So if you if you think about
SEO on 2001 when it when it started when
it when the the race kick off Google it
it took Google eight years to to reach
the volumes of search AI has nowadays
and we we are talking about that the
term answer engine optimization or the
term generative engine optimization it
has less than a year uh since it start
since the professional start using it.
So in less than a year the AI achieved
the the the record of Google in in terms
of traffic in terms of searches that
Google has on 2009. So we can compare
that. So AI will will be a a major a
core a backbone on when it comes to to
search. So as we are we we will see that
chat GPT won't be the the king. Google
will remain king but Google will with AI
mode for example for instance we will
see that the AI will be like the one
with the wheel. So it will decide what
we what to to show what to what to sum
up. Uh so this is what what I can say in
a two-year gap
>> um just because as I said at the
beginning many of us are interested in
regulation let's say so um giving it
very politically correct um there is
something that some people have been
quite worried about when it comes to
asking AI to generate a suggestion which
is that For example, if you use the same
LM more than once, it may uh kind of
remember what you've been asking in the
past and then say like on on one day I
ask about um a given set of um say
shoes, the next day I ask about
something else and like it kind of
builds a profile for me and then starts
automatically
um kind of sending me in the direction
of specific brands because it thinks
that it fits my profile. far better and
I'm not given all the possible um kind
of um options in the market that do
actually fit to my description, but the
AI simply doesn't see them because it's
seen as a as if my profile leads it into
another direction. Have you noticed this
as well? Like have you noticed that some
brands kind of like tend to come up um
as a bundle to specific users? Yeah,
that's a an and and that's a something
some big issue that we we confront when
building LLMO metrics. Um what we do is
to we we execute the prompts the the our
end users give us to track. we execute
them on a on a a background um uh how do
you say uh a clean chip or a clean
gemini what I'm referring with a clean
is without background knowledge okay so
we get rid of the the the cache the the
the knowledge this this chat GBT has and
it's like a a a newborn CH GBT and then
with that environment creat created we
execute the prompt. This h grant us that
our the response we get is not biased.
Okay.
So the only two um the only two sources
the the AI has to uh to uh to decide
which answer to give is the browser. H
it can navigate the browser h go and and
fetch sources from from different sites
or its database. Okay. So this is are
these are the two the two sources and
because the background knowledge can
interfere can bias the response as you
were saying because this is something we
we have to take into account when when
providing the monitoring the answers
monitoring.
Wow, this is really interesting and I
hope that more research also into this
is done in the future because I feel
like you know when you talk about
consumers and um consumer autonomy,
freedom of contracting, you know making
a free choice completely a freely
informed choice is important and when
you look at these metrics um clearly
your company is trying to make it there
to the consumer in a way like by by
trying and remove the biases but
obviously we can't expect that to happen
in every single situation. So, um this
is particularly important for the
future. Well, um I have to ask you the
last question that we ask all of our
guests and this is particularly
important to legal for tech because we
do spread knowledge and that's our
mission. So I will ask you, do you have
any suggestions of books, movies, um
podcasts, uh reports to read for our
listeners to better understand what you
do and why is it so important to
understand this section of the market?
>> Okay. So in terms of uh books about uh
my my my
brand or my my market or books in
general?
>> Books in general. We like reading and
>> Okay. Okay. So I like um Stephen Kovi as
a as a as a an author as an author. So
these are the the seven in Spanish is
the
so it would be like the seven habits the
>> the seven traits of the very effective
people.
>> Yeah that
so it's Stephen Kovi and I also like
Ryan Holiday and some copyriters in
Spanish. So when I when it when it comes
to to reading, I try to to read
something that I can apply on my daily
basis. So stoic philosophy is something
I I find quite useful or being
resilient. So these uh seven habits of
Stephen Kovi talks about it helps you
like boost your best side and always
search for situations that provide
provides you but also provide to the
other part. So I think I I think that in
in terms of startups ecosystem is very
useful. So I recommend that book and
anyone Ryan Holidayiday's
publish is is actually good.
>> Well and so should all companies uh
follow Nico's advice and really boost
their best especially because when
people will ask LLMs what is the best of
this company or what is the best product
can you suggest one that's what they
will find the best part of this company.
So like guys, please invest on this. It
is important and it will be much more
important in the foreseeable two years
future. So thank you very much Nico for
joining us today. It was such a pleasure
to finally meet you.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much Rosalia
Chago. It's a it was a pleasure and
thank you for giving me the the spot.
>> Absolutely. We want to spread awareness
on this because it's so important to all
our community and you know the world in
general. Uh brands need to start
thinking of this problem. So thank you
very much. Thank you for giving us a
solution as well. And yes, this was all
for legal protect the podcast.
