[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
Hello, I'm Tom Parker and welcome to
Voices from the SEPs Ideas Lab. In this
episode, I spoke with Stefan Verhust.
Stefan is co-founder and chief research
and development officer of Gov Lab,
NYU's governance laboratory. During our
interview, we discussed how question
science can refine policym, address
systematic biases, and foster a more
intelligent approach to AIdriven
research and innovation. I hope you
enjoy the episode.
[Music]
Well, Stefan, pleasure to have you here.
Pleasure. Thank you for having me. What
inspired the development of a new
science and taxonomy of questions and
why is it particularly important for
advancing women's health innovation?
Yeah. So for the last few years I've
been working on how do we make policym
more datadriven and that means that we
need data in order to really understand
what is the problem and how do we then
start addressing it and measuring
whether we are making any progress as
such. Now the real challenge is that we
do have data. we do need a lot more data
that is made accessible but quite often
the problem is that we don't really know
what is the question that actually
matters and so I became very frustrated
uh over the years by really working on
data and everyone wants more data but
when I asked great we need more data but
what's the question you seek to answer
quite often I got a lot of blank stairs
and people not really able to formulate
a question or worse uh uh indicating
that give us the data and we will
formulate the question afterwards and I
don't think that's the best way forward
which is why I started this initiative
called the 100 questions initiative
which is what are the hundred questions
that matter to society that we could
answer if we find a way to unlock the
data that is already collected in ways
that is uh responsible and by doing that
work I came to the realization that as a
society we are extremely unsophisticate
ated when it comes to formulating
questions. We have data science but we
have no question science. We actually
have no standard methodology that is
rigorous and also takes into account
diverse perspectives in a way that then
could formulate and prioritize the
questions that matter. And that's when I
started working on the proposition and
the big idea uh that we actually need
question science to complement data
science because without it uh we will
actually not generate the insights that
we can generate and we will be
distracted uh by all the data as opposed
to get a clear signal of that data that
matters. Well, now I I'm worried about
the next question I'm going to ask
because I haven't been a part of any
sort of question science. Yeah. Let's
see whether your question is actually
matches the expectations. Well, you've
got high expectations. So, it's got to
be an amazing question. I actually want
to look at the challenges and some of
the gaps in women's health research and
policy. Could you could you outline some
of those because then how does this new
structured way of formulating and
prioritizing questions work in
addressing those? Great. Thanks for that
question. uh and so yeah, women's health
is one of the domains uh where we're
looking into how do we establish kind of
the core questions as it relates to
women's health and it's uh fundamentally
important because women's health
typically already starts from some kind
of a disadvantage because many of the
questions in health don't take women's
health into account and so for that
reason formulating the questions that
matter in women's health is also kind of
a recalibration of what are the
questions that matter in held that have
different implications for women uh as a
result uh of anyway their kind of unique
characteristics and experiences in life.
So that's one way. The other way is that
the other reason why question science
matter is because a lot of question
science also deals with questions equity
by which I mean who actually formulates
the questions matters with regard to
what are the uh topics that one will pay
attention to and it turns out in women's
health uh uh many of the questions are
not formulated by women uh or by uh kind
of those that have uh that are affected
in different ways. And so question
science is also a way to provide
questions equity in addition to
unpacking a complex topic like women's
health in a far more uh sophisticated
way and in a way that provides kind of
prioritization as well. But there's bias
that must be built in already in lots of
different areas around health. you know,
if we're looking at the context of
models in AI that have been built, you
know, there are inherent biases on the
information and data that has been made
available beforehand. So, this isn't a
sort of specific problem within women's
health as well, although important to
highlight those areas. Is it affecting
other areas? Yeah. So, yeah. So, rightly
so. And part of the bias is because we
start with the data. Yeah. Right. So a
lot of the data that has been collected
that is then being reused for other
purposes and other questions is already
biased in itself and as a result uh um
we actually establish more bias. If we
would start with a question right yeah
and say what are the questions that
matters for different uh groups and what
is the implications if we don't answer
them then you would actually know what
is the quality of the data that we have
and you would also know what are the
gaps in data that we have in order to
actually start answering that question
and so yes so it's not uniquely to
women's health uh uh it's also to other
parts of health but other parts of
society uh as well that uh certain
groups a never uh get asked what is the
question that matters to you and B
certain groups automatically get ignored
because they start from data that is
being collected uh from groups that are
anyway datari right so for instance one
of the big world areas that I have
worked on is accessing private sector
data like for instance social media data
to inform public interest uh questions
now unfortunately not everyone is on
social media right which means that the
questions we can answer from social
media data are limited if we start with
the data right but if we would start
with the question then social media data
might be useful but needs to be
complemented with other data sets as
well it's essentially about diversifying
the stakeholders yeah within within any
part of this correct diversifying the
stakeholders and it's also about um um
empowering uh stakeholders that this
typically are not part of the question
cycle
in ways that actually recalibrates some
of the priorities as well. Um, and how
is AI going to change science in the
coming years? It's a big question, but
with some of the the areas that you're
looking at now, having this question
science and looking at why data might be
biased, how is AI going to change
science in the coming years if these
areas aren't looked at? But perhaps a as
a whole. Yeah. Well, meaning I think sc
AI is going to totally transform the
scientific enterprise uh both in good
and potentially bad ways, right? So the
scientific enterprise basically has a
set of stages, right? Which is about
formulating the question. Yeah. Then
it's about anyway what data do we need
in order to test the premises that we uh
uh basically set out uh to test to then
subsequently public publication and then
uh testing and reproduction of the uh
the results. And so from my point of
view AI has a potential role to play at
uh at every stage and could change the
way we go about formulating premises. It
could change the way we go about
actually uh testing uh some of those
premises in much more faster ways uh uh
and different ways than we ever had. But
from my point of view, what is still
very unique is the who determines the
question, right? And I think that's
still where human intelligence plays a
more important role than AI because uh
human humans can take context into
account much better than AI can. AI is
just reacting to what it is fed not the
context in which the question is
formulated and it is also not good in
actually prioritizing in alignment with
certain kinds of values as well because
anyway AI anyway could you start
producing answers to all kinds of
offensive questions that we actually
don't want to be posed as well and so I
think human human intelligence will
remain important when it comes to the
question formulation and we will have to
become more um um rigorous and more
sophisticated in how we formulate those
questions because the whole machinery is
set up to spew answers, right? Uh but
are those answers actually any
meaningful if we don't spend enough time
on actually really thinking what's the
question and how do we formulate that
question to a large extent and when you
talk about the interaction of human
intelligence you discuss with me a
little bit about the difference between
the individual and collective
intelligence when it comes to that human
human game. Yeah. And so again other
part of my work has been on collective
intelligence and I do think that
actually AI has a huge potential to
improve collective intelligence as well.
Yeah. Um but I think uh what we need to
do is not just like anyway individual
intelligence only speaks about one
particular context experience right and
so collective intelligence is much more
sophisticated in different contextes
different lived experiences so that you
actually can tap into this kind of
collective understanding of what the
problem is is from my point of view a
much better way to go about it uh and
also a better way to prioritize right?
As opposed to kind of what happens quite
often in the current scientific
enterprise which is an individual
researcher that determines this is the
question that matters uh without
actually having a collective
understanding of whether that's really
uh uh matters. Now that does not mean
that we can have experimentation does
not mean that we can have pluralism in
certain kind of questions but for
certain questions we actually do need to
prioritize them because resources are
scarce getting more scarcer and
especially uh we need to do this in a
responsible way visa v kind of the
anyway the community that we seek to
serve wanted to go down the route of of
how humans are interacting with AI and
how there have been people that are
scared about displacement of their
current skill set and jobs via AI. Um
this sounds very much like you are
talking about creating a collective with
AI the importance of the human within
the relationship. Um and actually that
have you got examples from history and
technological revolutions whereby man
and machine for want of a better phrase
have worked much better with each other
than they have previously predicted.
Yeah. Yeah. So, so the the fundamental
question quite often with technology is
that will it replace or will it augment
human intelligence, right? And I think
to a large extent AI when designed well
has huge potential for augmentation of
human intelligence, right? uh uh for
instance again to questions we actually
can start using AI to see are the
questions already answered right because
the amount of sheer waste in the system
where we actually start answering
questions that already have had an
answer right is stunning to me to be
quite honest right I mean part of the
problem in human society is that we
actually uh have we actually forget
quite often right what we already know
right Now AI can enable us to really
think well actually we already know that
yeah so what's the next question because
the interesting thing about questions
which I forgot to say perhaps is the
first part of the the word it is a quest
right and so the question is how do you
organize the quest in ways that actually
improves uh society right I call this
architecting inquiry where you need to
architect inquiry and quite often we do
this well do at the current environment
we do poorly because we don't know
what's the question that really needs
answering versus a question that is
already answered or how do we really
test out certain kinds of questions in a
much more faster way so that we know
what is the next question that really
matters and so that's kind of a very
nerdy answer to your question no but I
love it we're all about the nerdiness um
well look it's been an absolute pleasure
to speak with you today Stefan and thank
you for I watch this space with much
interest really good questions thank
Hey,
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
