[Music]
Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice at this point. I
guess it is always rosy here. And as
I've said many many many times, this is
just a group of students and more young
professionals who are here to talk about
technology and yes its regulation.
And we're opening again season two with
a great great interview. This time we
have not one two guests who are here to
talk to us about a very important
publication that is really at the heart
also of our nationality because as you
know some of the members of legal photo
tech me included are Italian and this
time we talk about an Italian book. So
we are here uh with Javanni Maricho and
Vincan Satani who you already know um to
talk about their last publication
especially Javanni's publication uh
which is a commentary so a um all
together um description of the Italian
version of the Act and everything that
comes with it. So welcome to legal for
tech guys.
>> Good morning everyone.
>> Thank you foration. It just means
introduce someone. I just have to be
honest.
>> I was going to say it. Just give me one
second. Always the boss.
>> As you can hear from his voice, joining
me today on the podcast is actually Jako
one, also called the boss. Hi Jack
Moore. Great to see you.
>> I I don't get the numbering, but it's
fine. It's fine. And we are ready for
season
>> in order of age or or in order of
annoyance. And you are top there. Uh
>> absolutely. That said, enough with the
talking. Let's get going with this
interview. So both of you, I mean, we
know intent, so we know a bit less about
Professor John, but it is very important
for us and for our listeners to get to
know you a bit better and most
importantly to get to know how you came
up with this very very interesting
project which is very important to all
Italian listeners and I mean the world
as well.
So once again thanks a lot for the
invitation. Let's speak about this book.
I am one of the three editors. The other
two are professor Montelero
who is at the University of Tin and
Professor George Oessa who is at the
University of Roma.
Uh about the book it is a commentary
article by article. We have tried to
involved uh many commentators in our
selection. We preferred uh those who had
an international experience and also an
academic experience as long as we do not
have uh case law on on this topic and we
do not have u not not so relevant
provisions also by administrative
authorities. So we have involved many
prominent scholars,
one of them is Vincen Satani of course
and uh we have tried to involve persons
who were already experienced in the um
in all the issues relating to law
technology. Uh
I I work on on this uh u in this area
since many years since almost 30 years.
Uh I'm I'm quite old. I'm 50. So, uh
just after my degree, I start working on
this um on these topics. Uh not on
artificial intelligence, but in general
on the relations between uh law and
technology and uh at the moment I am a
professor of comparative law at the
University of Salerno which is in the
south of Italy. I also work as a lawyer.
So I try to combine this double
experience as an academic and as a um a
professional. Um as for the book we have
also try to include different voices
with a different vision on the
artificial intelligence act. Let me say
that of course the book and that's a
pity probably it's in Italian. We are
also working on some translation of the
book as long as we we didn't enter yet
into formal agreements. I'm not entitled
to speak about this but uh I mean uh
I'm quite confident that there will be
uh translations into other languages of
the same text. Um as said we try to
prefer different voices. uh some are
very critical, some are less critical
regarding the artificial intelligence
act. So we try also to provide uh
different approaches to this to this
subject.
>> Let's say that you just gave us a
wonderful pre present because we needed
this tool for our everyday work. So
thank you very much. It will be super
useful. But let's start with the kickoff
and say what's your take on the AI act
of course only original answered are
accepted just want to know the point of
view of Javanni and also of Vinceno
>> um I start I'm uh pretty sure that my
approach to the artificial intelligence
act is a little bit different from that
of Vincenzo but I think that also Um uh
the the the academic works also
um is is needed not to uh give access
only to the the same approaches in the
sense that in general we tend to uh
create our opinion by also the
dissenting opinions. So uh that's why I
didn't want only authors with the same
view that I have. uh to be honest I
think that on the one side the
artificial intelligence act is a very
ambitious experiment
and uh uh the point is that always the
technology not only artificial
intelligence but this is a general uh a
general issue technology is always in
flux so the the the main point in my
view is that generally speaking I think
that the artificial intelligence actu uh
has this uh uh aspiration to be a future
proof but uh uh it is also written into
a kind of syntax of today just taking
into account the um the systems and the
models which are on the market at at the
moment and of course if if we try to
think at the future that should be a
problem uh of course on the other side I
totally agree with the human centric
approach of of act in general. And um as
said, this is probably a very ambitious
uh proposition by the the the the
European Union. And on the one side, of
course, uh um um the the positive aspect
is that we have um we put some limits.
The negative aspect is the same that we
put some limits on something which is
still ongoing.
>> Ven so the floor is yours.
>> Sure. So also for the the few people
that's missed for certain reason which I
cannot understand the the episode we did
just want to briefly introduce myself as
well. Uh I'm in Sautani. and senior EU
policy council at with the future of
privacy forum and PhD researchers at
they will be in in Brussels. So um
I I agree with uh with Giovanni for
sure. It's it's an ambitious experiment.
I'm also very uh being based in Brussels
since 10 years. Uh I'm very European
naive. So for me it's wow it's amazing
everything is it's per it's not perfect.
I mean that that that that's for sure.
Uh we know the genesis was um was
complex. Uh we know that the you know
especially when you know LLM so JP in
particular came to the market there was
already u let's say general purpose AI
was not in the text so was not in the
first proposal was not in any amendments
of the council. So uh it was up to the
parliament to provide with uh some new
articles regarding regulating general
purpose AI. So that was also um peculiar
compared to other pieces of regulation.
Uh we know that there was for sure a
certain uh political push to finish the
text to approve the text before the end
of the legislation the legislature in
June 2024. Uh so that's why they uh you
know with elections coming the the final
the final uh political agreement was
reached in December 2023
after 36 years sorry years yeah it's it
looked like years of negotiation again
nothing that's quite you know was
entering the ginness of uh of European
Union so that's that's need to be taken
into consideration uh we know especially
after drug report but I mean it's been
years u that there is a lot of
discussion that we are talking about
seriously uh stakeholders in European
Union is talking about sort of you know
polls on the AAC
uh because of course there's a need for
regulation there is there's a need for
innovation we don't want to stop
innovation blah blah blah there's a lot
of you know talking uh not necessarily
not necessarily
backed by facts and data because it's
not that before a we were you know
thriving with startups with LLMs
I mean that's not the case so it's not
that it's not because of GDPR it's not
because of a it's not because of
regulation
um but yeah of course that's that
requires a discussion uh I would say
it's interesting it's also another
another point I want to add it's a sort
of Frankenstein meaning they act
compared to GDPR comes from a different
part. So it's a safety regulation. It's
like it's you know it's in the family
goes in the family of uh you know uh
cars of uh elevators you know how to be
sure that these kind of um uh devices
objects are safe. Uh this doesn't come
from you know fundamental rights. So the
fundamental rights part there was
something uh in the of course but it was
let's say most of the amendments were
made by the European parliament. So
again it's it's it's complex it's
complex also it's a first I I think that
this time the European Union wanted to
anticipate instead of you know
regulating after 10 years like it
happened with uh you know social media
for example. Uh so yeah
interesting experiments we'll see we'll
see how it goes.
>> I just want to ask you something because
will be also part of my thesis and it's
something that I would like to discuss a
little bit. Can we consider this
regulation being son of two parents two
approaches the medical safety product
and in part the other parent could be
the GDPR.
I can also see the I will tell you the
reason why also because we can see that
some principles of the GDPR are in this
regulation. What's your view on it? Do
you see overlapping or how this
regulation can can communicate between
each others?
>> Wow, that's challenging in the sense
that I totally agree with Vincent.
I think that uh uh it is clear to all
the scholars that we are speaking about
uh regulations which falls into the
safety regulations
uh while the focus uh also the focus of
the media was mainly on fundamental
rights. And so we have uh this kind of
not not a clash but something which is a
little bit a Frankenstein as Vincenso
said in the sense that on the one side
we have a very technical regulation
which is a regulation aimed at
regulating the the technologies and all
and so the devices. Uh on the other side
we have uh quite uh in my view at least
quite a a a vague and not very precise
approach to fundamental rights. They are
mainly mentioned into the act but it is
still unclear and also the the the the
necessity of a balance uh among the
different uh fundamental rights. I mean
I'm old enough to remember that in
general in the European institutions
this balance is made by the court of
justice is not made by uh private
actors. So uh I think that it is uh
quite challenging. on the other side. I
think that and also for my generation,
this is another brick of um
a regulation which is a regulatory
regulation in the sense that it's mainly
an administrative regulation uh instead
of being something which is related to
the uh classical partitions like public
law, private law and whatsoever. So in
in this sense I feel that there is uh a
kind of continuity with not only the
GDPR but many other regulations. Last
sentence is related to the fact that of
course we have too many rules uh coming
from from Europe is it's not a problem
of just limiting innovation is a problem
of consistency also for the uh legal
scholars for the legal practitioners and
too many laws uh means statistically uh
the more possibility to have some uh
contradiction uh among ong the the the
single regulations.
Joanni, I I have to take the opportunity
of uh what you were saying to highlight
that if this episode goes out on Tuesday
14 October, sorry for the some
marketing, but today 14 October uh as a
future price for we are actually um in
Brussels with our uh event that will be
really on GDPR evolution or revolution
and we are trying to basically this is
our in our portfolio this year for sure
and in following years uh to get is this
we need to change the laws we need just
to so amend GDPR we need to uh just
let's say having more guidance on how to
interpret and combine these many
different regulations uh that's uh try
to regulate digital um environment uh
that said um it's true there are two
parents let's say that one parent was
not invited at the at the birthday and
arrived later say hey uh what's going on
here and the reason
>> first cha
>> exactly uh I'm not saying which parent
was not invited uh want to be clear no
the fact is that uh yes it it comes from
product regulation but has my friend and
former uh assistant of MEP Brando Ben co
um cooperative of the act for the
European parliament and said la
is not a toaster.
Uh so it's not just about product
product safety. Uh and it's so uncertain
the outcome
and it's not it's not you know lawyers
saying that it's scientists saying that
it's so uncertain that for sure I think
the parliament thought it was necessary
to add more ingredients let's say in
this receipt uh regarding fundamental
rights you wouldn't put this kind of
provision in a toaster regulation or in
a you know car car something but again
it's It's totally different totally
different uh beast. So that's why uh the
result is a bit is quite a mix uh
because the the outcome is really
uncertain.
>> Let me challenge this part just a little
bit more. Okay. And then I will not
annoy you anymore.
>> We want to be quoted in your master.
>> Write your dissertation. Like seriously,
>> we want to be quoting your master
thesis.
And let's say that from my super humble
perspective, let me pass it for the high
risk um product. Let's say that I have
seen that the obligation for the
provider are more and more similar to
that safety medical approach. But then
when we goes to the obligation of the
provider, we have that due diligence
obligation that are more similar to the
other parents. So the GDPR do you agree
on this position or or not?
>> Yeah, because again it's
you need to show your accountability
because you don't you are not you as a
provider you you cannot be sure
not 100% but neither I would say 80%
that the outcome will be from A will be
B. So if the outcome will be C and uh
will have an impact on fundamental
rights on health on whatever pick one of
people you need to show that okay I did
my homework I did my due diligence these
are I use this uh data set which is were
not taken randomly from the internet but
we were you know chosen because this is
what kind of service or product I want
to provide. So for this reason, for this
objective, I use just this kind of data.
I implement this safeguards. And then of
course things happen. We we we know from
GDPR, we know also that if you are if a
data controller, if a company has been
hacked, not necessarily there will be a
fine just because it was hacked, because
it was a data leak. If the company can
show yeah you know I invested X money on
training on cyber security and so on
then yeah of course there's you cannot
foresee the future but I think that's uh
and it happens also with uh if you take
a normal car so not automated car of
course there are there are still risks
there are still accidents so we know
that people certain amount of people
will die every year for car accidents We
need to be let's say reduced to the 0
something%
the probability that this happens
because of a malfunctioning of the car
and every time a car is you know the the
producer the car manufacturer founds out
that there are a malfunctionist they ask
back all the car not just one car they
say okay thousand of cars are asked to
be uh delivered back to the to the
company to check that to to to check on
this kind of malfunction.
So yeah but again we are we don't know
the outputs. So once you will be certain
but it cannot be 100% certain because
it's not just algorithmic
uh assessment.
Yeah, once again I I agree with Vincenzo
and uh I think as a law professor one of
the problems of our faculties is that of
not teaching risk management in the
sense that probably as a lawyers we
should
um understand that the also the the the
language of the laws changed in the
sense that we moved for something which
is focused on damages and an exposted
approach to an exanti approach. And so
uh on the one side of course we we may
say that also the artificial
intelligence sector as one of the
parents is very formalistic
in the sense that of course working on
compliance means also producing uh many
documents which should sounds and as
totally useless. I'm not going to say
that they are useless. Uh in some cases
probably they are. So the point is that
low became once again as it was already
in the past very formalistic. But the
point is that both the GDPR as well as
artificial intelligence act as well as
many other regulation let's think for
example in environmental law is based on
a riskmanagement approach. So probably
we should change our mind as as lawyers.
So we cannot use the old categories
also in these new contests. I'm not
saying that if it's correct or not, but
I'm just making a picture of how on
what's the new language of the laws.
I find um this point that you made about
the language of the laws particularly
important because as we did mention the
book is written in Italian and um it's
still a very kind of pioneering
publication because it is the first one
written in Italian and we all have
learned English in a way but it's
different to to read um thank you in
um
Great. Um, it's it's still very
important to to read the document in the
language it was translated into because
that has legal validity as we know. Um,
that's how the European kind of um,
legal framework was built. Now, as I
said, um I live in Germany and I can
tell you that the German translation of
the act sometimes makes interesting use
of um how would I say um terms of
phrases and adverbs and the meaning in
English is a tiny bit different from the
one in German sometimes, other times is
a bit more different and and that can be
problematic. And my question to you both
is did you find that um kind of um
creating an intersection between the
Italian language and the Italian meaning
of legal concepts and the AA act was
challenging? And was it challenging also
and to this I I will address as well. Um
compared to for example other legal
systems that you have perhaps seen um
working
um in Brussels.
>> Well, this is a a great question. Um I
mean I teach comparative law. So in
comparative law is widely studied the
the problems of translation and in
general the main problem is that uh you
don't have objects but you have concepts
behind the the legal terms. So I may say
kavi in Italian or keys in English. So
we we understand what we are talking
about. But if I say contract and I say
contrato probably an uh a native speaker
an English native speaker uh would make
reference to the notion of contract in
his jurisdiction while I will make uh
reference to the notion of contract in
my jurisdiction. This is in general as
for artificial intelligence act. Oh let
let me say something which is still
general. There is also
a different approach in the uh legal
language in the sense that in general
English is uh the the uh the laws in
English are generally uh concise they
are very regulatory.
uh in Italian as well in all the other
romance languages uh we we have um
a syntactic complexity
uh and it's it's a reflection of a legal
legal tradition. So this is a point
which is very interesting that uh uh has
been widely discussed by the point that
for example in the European institutions
there are many translators who have not
a legal education and so in many cases
uh the the formal translation is correct
but the meaning behind this translation
is not that correct for example in in
the artificial intelligence I don't know
if there are mistakes actually but uh uh
for example the notion of uh uh
trustworthy
u I have the feeling that is not the
same of afid in Italian in the sense
that
um the the the
trustworthy is mainly in my uh
understanding at least an ethical domain
and uh uh which is translating into
Italian in something which is more
functionally reliable. So probably the
the idea which is behind the words is
slightly different.
Uh yeah of course I I agree also Italian
is a very complex law uh complex
language. Uh yeah all the tourists love
Italian blah blah blah. You talk like
you are poets. We are all Italians but
we are speaking in English.
>> Yeah, you say I know you know it's it's
like you are you are you know saying
poetry. Uh yes and I can tell you being
in in Brussels for since 10 years and
going back to this is my first
commentary. It's the first time I I was
involved in such such an opera and going
back to this kind of formalistic
way to to write
uh from one side you know emails in
Italian you can take the same email in
English and Italian in Italian would be
double the words
uh and you still don't know okay but
what's this person asking me uh on the
other side uh as an Italian I want to
say that after reading what I wrote just
from the formalistic point of view I say
okay I understand why people still like
it because there's it's true there's a
in a way it's this this formalistic it's
not just about formality but it's also
uh in a way it it's uh it's let's say uh
raise the bar in a way you know uh it
gives it more uh in the sound uh more
it's like everything is more important
And since we're talking about the act, I
think uh it is the case uh but jokes
aside also another thing I would like to
point uh is that um that would be and I
I was grateful for in a way having
worked in the past on the act during the
um the legislation process uh to to have
to have found many documents that
actually uh showed how the text changed
in the years
because this is comp thinking about the
complexity uh of the of this uh quote
unquote experiment.
It's very important to again for lawyers
and for academics to uh to remember how
about the generation of this law. So
what what happened and why and in
certain articles you see they are not
very well written because they're really
a Frankenstein product
but this is I mean this has happened
with all the laws but in for this law in
particular it's that's why I wanted to
do this let's say background um
information check at the beginning
because this is very this was generated
in a very particular way uh politically
speaking speaking um technologically
speaking. So having this
it's like being an historician you know
an archaeologist you go you find other
pieces to compose the puzzle say ah
that's why the law says like that and uh
thanks to linkin uh thanks to people
from the European parliament that can
you know can that shared their you know
the each draft it's I think it was very
interesting exercise to do and we'll be
still very happy when useful when we
will use
uh to interpret the law in the
foreseeable future.
>> Um
>> yeah, let me just one thing very briefly
the I think that uh the role of lawyers
we don't have to forget that this of
interpreting the law. So that this is
the only role that we have. Uh probably
it will be a great world without
lawyers. But uh uh the point is that in
in many cases in old cases I think that
our role is that not of reading the law
but that of interpreting the law and uh
getting back to your first question
what's your opinion about the artificial
intelligence act this is quite
embarrassing because it's very hard in
such a long text to have uh just one
opinion on some aspects I may say it's a
great text because it traces some princ
faults. On the other side, I would say
it's extremely technical. Just uh uh
take into mind for example the uh the
definition of floating point operation.
Uh let's take it it's it's number 70 uh
67 or 68 I don't remember in the in the
definitions which is absolutely a
non-legal definition. uh my daughter she
studied physics and uh uh probably she
would explain better than me that I'm a
lawyer but uh to be very honest I think
that we don't need such definitions into
legal text so we don't need an
hyper technicalities into the legal into
the legal text so I think that I mean on
one side um I agree with with Vincenzo
we have um comparing in the past we have
many possibilities also to uh interact
with those who wrote the the legal text
on the other side I would remember that
our purpose and our scope in life is
that of interpreting the law so I think
that we don't need uh the extra
techniques uh text
>> it's very interesting what you said
because I don't know I feel like it's
happened to me more than once that some
smaller companies have been saying like
you don't need to be a lawyer to
actually understand the act or you don't
need to be a lawyer to understand the
GDPR and like maybe there's a way to
work around the call a lawyer or you
just call a lawyer when something really
bad happens and you're like need help
please help um and and I do think it's
important to reinstate that although
these regulations seem to be
understandable to the general public
perhaps a bit more even given the
language
than other I would say Italian laws. And
I still remember my private law exam
when I was like reading the Bardian
thinking I have no this is my first
language and I have no idea what it
says. Um essentially this is a call to
to remind um also businesses and
professionals that um lawyers have a
profession too and they are trained
profession. Sorry for interrupting you
but the flip side of this discourse is
that that uh uh people may have the
feeling that law doesn't need an
interpretation. Law always need
interpretation and always need to be
interpreted. So this is uh something
which is very dangerous. uh as a lawyer
uh I frequently have to discuss about
legal texts with uh persons who doesn't
have a legal education and I have the
feeling that they do not understand that
again law is a matter of interpretation
and so it is not a matter only of
clarity because I think that we don't
have to make confusion between the
clarity of law of course the new uh way
of drafting laws is much worse uh of uh
how it used to be and this is a problem.
I'm not denying this. On the other side,
I think that uh again uh legal texts are
something that need to be interpreted
and that's why we wrote a commentary or
otherwise it was need a commentary
>> otherwise we'll be all unemployed.
Talking about complexity, let's talk
about the dec most international
listeners won't have grasped the deep
implication of the law. Help them and us
explore its implication and deeper
meanings.
Wow. Uh there is a um we have also
commented and uh notably Professor Esta
and I have commented the the new Italian
law. So you can find in the in the
commentary and uh uh I'm pretty
surprised that I haven't been sued for
defamation yet. Uh because I'm
absolutely
uh critical about this legislative text.
First of all, because I have the feeling
that both in Europe and and then in
Italy there is this
necessary this necessity of uh uh of
this speed of law and uh but the the the
real question in my view is uh uh is
being the first an advantage in law?
Probably not. So we we have this very
confused law in uh in Italy. First of
all, let me point out for the non
nonItalian listeners
that decto
may sounds as something which is very uh
technical. So it's it can be perceived
as a technical instrument. Uh it is
related according to our constitution
article 77 it is related to the to a
matter of urgency. So
uh the point is do we need a new jet
regulation or artificial intelligence?
Probably yes. But on the other side do
we need u
this kind of regulation? because one of
the main uh point in in this regulation
is um is that of the uh
the the the enforcibility of this tax.
Uh I think that very briefly and then
then I want to to to also listen the
opinion of Vincent about this uh the the
first problem of the uh Italian decree
is that of the authorities in the sense
that the law designates two authorities
which are on the one side AJIT which is
the agency for digital Italy on the
other side is Aen which is the national
cyber security agency Um
um after the first draft of the this
Italian decree, there were already some
remarks made by the European Commission
uh stating that uh uh we are speaking
not about uh administrative and
independent authorities. They are
appointed by the government and this is
an issue because this is in contrast
with the artificial intelligence act.
But uh uh
quite surprisingly uh the Italian
legislator
u
uh confirmed this solution. So the two
uh authorities which have been appointed
are two non-administrative two
non-independent authorities as far as we
consider an independent authority into
the uh EU law. Uh on the other side to
be very honest there are many provisions
which are uh not that precise in the
sense that uh many of them seem most of
all some uh very general uh provisions
that they there should be into a text of
fundamental rights not into an urgency
decree to be very honest. And as already
said, another aspect is that of the
enforcement. At the moment, it is not
clear who is entitled to enforce and in
which cases you can be entitled. Uh
there are also some positive aspects. Uh
first of all, one positive aspect is
that of um the law introduced new uh
offenses, new criminal offenses and some
aggressive factors. Uh for example, the
unauthorized dissemination of deep
fakes. Um
again also in this case anyway the
enforcement challenges remain in the
sense that it is not clear how you
should uh prove causality intent harm
and uh and whatsoever. So it is not that
clear. Finally there are also some rules
regarding the obligation for the
professionals of informing their clients
about the use of artificial intelligence
systems. Again, it is not very clear
which kind of
systems are considered. Probably the
reference of the decree is mainly to the
LLM. But on the other side, I don't
know. I mean, if I use uh some uh some
other devices in my in my job uh and my
expected to inform my clients, but why?
And u finally as as a copyright law
scholar also I would say that uh there
is a a provision on the
uh on creativity and uh the point is
that uh the the this Italian decree
states that um uh a war can be protected
only if there is a significant human
contribution.
But it was already very clear uh taking
into account the European Court of
Justice
um case law as well as many other
provisions also in the Bur convention
probably. So to be very honest I think
that in some points it is totally
useless. In some points it is too
uncertain to be applicable without huge
problems. In some way in in some points
it is not that bad. uh a general uh
conclusion is that probably I mean uh it
would be better to take more time in
drafting the laws but do that this law
better
but but it's a kind of political issue
is not a legal issue I mean I have the
the feeling that our government only had
the
sorry only had the necessity of uh
reporting into uh into the media that we
have been the first country in the first
continent and blah blah blah.
>> Yeah, I'm sorry for the listeners but I
basically 100% agree. Uh just want to go
back to enforcement. um
we we will have a problem and not not
just because of Italy uh but uh I mean
for sure didn't help the fact to uh
nominate two authorities not one not
another one two
uh
okay why uh what is the main problem um
this is not national law this is
European low and also it's not sectoral
law. This is product safety law where
the impacts on fundamental rights low
meaning
the Italian the national data protection
authorities are not out of the table
even if they're not the authority let's
say officially enforcers of the act are
still enforcers of GDPR and guess who
uses a lot of personal data AI who
that's the first second there are also
sectoral law so market authority are
still there. Uh if you're talking about
AI in the financial sector,
the the concept the the you know and the
other you know specific market authority
for each sector are still there. Yes,
the act says you need to create a sort
of point of contact for the European
level for coordination but again we we
will have really a major problem in
internal coordination at the national
level plus at the European level.
And if so far you had cases where you
had again if we think about GDPR but you
can think about any other legislation
let's say when you go to Brussels
you speak to your peers right so other
data protection authorities if you're
talking about GDPR when you gather
you're in the EDPB European data
protection board re um uh meetings every
month so you are all colleagues in a way
when you're talking about so many
different authorities at national level
which are not the same the same
colleagues of I know telecoms say yeah
yeah this is my colleague the Spanish
colleague no there other people in other
departments in other authorities and in
certain cases like Italy two authorities
not one authority so it will be I I
think it will be a mess so honestly I
think that the Italian government and
national government in general should
think more about cooperation
So how will you cooperate? Because I
know in Italy we solve everything with a
coffee and a dinner and we we solve all
the problem of coordination among
authorities. But this this is not how it
should work and uh again it can work in
Italy, it cannot work in another in
another country. So again this is I
think it's uh it's a priority that
national level uh government should um
should think of. Uh deep fake. Yeah. Uh
I think it's a good sign let's say
because honestly I'm very critical
regarding the the fact that defix were
uh located allocated in um let's say
minim um minimum level so transparency
requiring only transparency requirements
uh article 50 and following meaning yeah
but deep fakes because I asked that for
to the commission said why the fakes are
not I'm not I'm not saying prohibited
risk. I would have put them in probed
risk with some exceptions honestly.
Let's say high risk. No, they're in
transparency and I I asked the
commission I will not say whom in
particular but what is the really why
you didn't put it let's say you didn't
put a higher bar. Yeah. Because you know
you can use the fakes for you know we
don't want to prohibit. Yeah. But I mean
what are the the use cases? Yeah. Okay.
uh movie industry. Okay. Something in F
voices for sure can help people that
lost their voice.
What else? For the rest, it's just
stupid video on the internet plus scams
plus crimes plus plus plus. So I perhaps
I'm too pessimistic, but I see I see
more
not useful um use cases than actually
good ones. So honestly uh I would have
put them at least under high risk but
mostly under prohibited risk and then we
are in transparency. So I think that so
just to finish the fact that they there
was this uh this provision in Italian
code and the criminal code say if you
use the fake uh we say um it will be
there will be some
major major crime in a way it's a good
sign that this is bad. again I I don't
think it will change anything in the
end.
>> I I think the point on deep fakes is
really difficult to um get a great off
because it's there you have to really
define the the distinction between the
technology and the use of it and I do
feel like you know the problem with deep
fakes is kind of like how they get
propagated and the effect they have on
people. So like if you think of beep
fakes on social media platforms for
example then potentially the DSA applies
and the DSA and the Act should be
applied complimentarily. So you can
always argue that like if you do look at
the European framework all together and
if you do actually remember to use all
the legislation which is impossible
you can find a case for like deep fakes
being used in this case. They could
violate the UCPD, but then they can also
violate DSA. Then in some cases, like if
they use for advertisement, potentially
they could violate VMA. It's it's it's a
lot to to process. If you if they use
personal data to make the defect and
they violate the GDPR, then if they use
um some copyrighted material that should
not be used, they violate copyright law.
It's crazy. And and I do agree that like
potentially the Italian approach of
saying that okay if you do it for wrong
a bit like it was done to Prime Minister
Maloney and maybe she did have a bit of
a stake in that. Um but um then then you
should you you should face consequences
under a criminal. I think this is just
to finish on the deep fake. This is the
point. There are let's say 90% I only
see bad uses and uh and the fact is that
criminals don't care about the DSA,
don't care about GDPR if the technology
is so it's so easily available to
everyone to everyone. And then I mean
two years ago you you're you needed to
find let's say 30 minutes of someone
voice and video to train and to recreate
let's say your digital twin. Now it
takes 30 seconds and god knows how many
voice messages we send on WhatsApp uh or
how many podcasts we produce every every
>> don't even start this conversation
because I already super super
>> okay again anyway this is another
conversation meaning uh yeah I think I
agree in the end I agree with Joani I'm
not so enthusiastic so we'll see but uh
I hope that there will be more effective
honestly on on cooperation
>> yeah I don't
Sorry.
>> No, please.
It's kind of a patchwork legislative
text and uh of course they they just
follow the IP and uh I was listening to
the deep fake and what Veno was saying
we we we just follow something which is
understandable also by the general
public but which is on the one side not
not well regulated on the one side as
you said Rosalia there so many laws that
should uh be involved into this into
this aspect on one side and on the other
side again we we are just following the
IP and uh
I mean uh television is speaking about
the fakes so let's regulate about the
fakes but this is not very serious
>> propaganda by law
>> yeah but It's also
this is actually what's happening even
in Europe. There's the new wave of
deregulation and just now we just follow
the wave and we which is quite weird
because we are talking the European
Commission is talking about reviewing
laws that she approved they approved
like two years ago
or one year ago in the case of the act.
So I mean what are we talking about?
Why are you so self you're not I mean
I'm not saying that the law are perfect
and are you know set in stone they
cannot be changed
but certain low neither has have started
their effects barrier started effects
meaning even there is no uh EC court of
justice
uh presidents there is no other there's
no enough doctrine I think in in the
late It seems that people just want give
me the check a checklist that I can, you
know, copy paste on my phone so I can do
compliance.
Again, I don't want to go in the
opposite direction, meaning that the law
needs to be complicated for sure. I
don't want that. That's why I prefer
European law. It's more clear than my
person, my national law, Italian law. Uh
but again give us time and uh so work
more on guidance work more uh on
opinions uh but thinking about reviewing
the law that you just approach I think
let's say it's a peculiar approach I
don't know if it's this you know son of
of this particular time but yeah
>> okay stop uh doing
>> I don't want to do I mean I don't want
to fall of this negativity as long as
I'm the oldest one
among us. So in general old people are
very pessimistic. I'm not pessimistic,
but I'm surprised by the fact that I
mean we were used to the fact that in
some cases the European legislation was
a little bit schizophrenic
in the sense that it dependent on the uh
single units and it depended on the
single
general directorate on what side and on
the other side depends on the loistic
pressures. uh while now we are just
following uh as said we are just
following the uh the the the media and
this necessity of regulating uh on on
the other side that's very easy I mean I
don't want to speak like
but on the one side I would say that uh
uh if you cannot do investment do
regulations and but that that's too easy
I know but to be very honest I I was
very surprised by the artificial
intelligence act and now by the
by the Italian decree of this discourse
we were the first one having a laws I
mean I I'm come from the comparative law
uh world and uh I never uh ever listen
some you know French colleague saying
our civil code uh was issued you know
100 100 years before the be and so we
won and our civil code was the first one
and this is this is not not I mean again
this is not a legal point as Vin
Chancellor said uh also legal texts need
um to uh deeper analyze eyes to we need
the support of the uh doctrinal studies
we need the supports of opinions of
guidance of also of the case law I mean
once again it's a matter of
interpretation so we are making this
kind of laws which seems like yogurts
they are expected to stay for a couple
of months and then to be replaced by
something else but uh this is very
negative also for the market and also
for the u for the companies operating in
this sector. Uh Vincenzo correctly said
about the simplification in the GDPR. Uh
I think that the commission is make u a
good work in this sense but uh on the
other side let's consider that GDPR was
uh written 10 years ago. So I mean it's
quite normal that uh in the
technological sector it's um an update
was was needed. On the other side
I mean I would say don't don't don't
don't believe the hype as public enemy
will say but don't follow the hype and
don't follow just the uh technological
news because of course the speed of law
is not the speed of technology.
This will be my last question. What
section, if we may, are you most proud
of reading writing this book? What would
you say is missing from this version?
>> Uh well, yeah, it's not very polite. Uh
as long as I am one of the editors to
say uh I to be very honest, I'm very
proud of this book. I'm just the editor.
I I've commented some articles. I'm very
proud by the fact that I think that is
very useful as long as it is structured
article by article. So it's also very
easy uh to be uh read not only by legal
professionals but in general and also to
have an overview on on a single rule. uh
so I I would not speak about uh the the
the
single section of the book because that
will be clearly unfair but uh I would
say that probably I mean
a very uh the provision of the
artificial intelligence act which is
interesting in my view will be maybe
article 9 and in general all the
provisions with
um
which shows the approach of the European
Commission and the fact that the
European Commission probably is not
building only trustworthy but uh a kind
of let me say a culture of governance
behind artificial intelligence. So uh my
pick probably is for uh death rules
which highlights this approach
and of course the documentaries of
chance at the end
>> of course of course article. So the when
you buy it go straight to article 21
to25 and then for the rest you can just
leave it there aside. Uh in in I would
say that uh there are two articles that
I that I like uh and that in a way uh
are going in the right direction uh and
should be as an inspiration for also
this uh you know review GDPR review as
well. um one so the the one regarding
the GDPR review is the article 70 uh 67
on the I act on the advisory forum why
is that because I think it's important
that we put in this board in this you
know uh gathering of lawyers
uh people that are not lawyers people
coming from other you know uh the act
the advisory forum um includes uh
stakeholders industry startup appsmemes,
civil society and academia. The fact
that we had this let's say we open the
doors to uh non lawyers, nonposs, non
yeah non
people coming from compliance or uh uh
or low but also say okay whatme said how
is that a problem? So working before
starting from from let's say from
scratch working on the solution instead
of we think from our desk that this is
the solution and then reality is
something to completely different. So I
think this the fact having this advisory
form is interesting. It's something that
was already included in a way in the
also in the uh in the data governance
act that nobody know what it is but it's
quite important piece of regulation um
with this form that's open the door to
other stakeholders. Um and article 27 uh
on the fundamental rights impact
assessment uh which was something that
was added by was not in the original
text proposed by the commission was a
proposal coming from the parliament. uh
I had a little little little little role
on this because uh along with Alexander
professor Alexander Montterero the other
co-editor uh along with Joavanni and
professor resta of the commentary and
professor Janalo Manger we uh we started
a sort we wrote a letter uh and we we
collected more than 150 uh signature
from the academia uh also from Shashan
Madub the author of um you
uh I don't know. Okay. Uh so many many
important scholars uh to support article
27. Uh so having fundamental rights
impact assessment into the final text.
Uh because of course during the
negotiation the the commission wasn't
really into into the idea of adding this
kind of provision. And in the end the
final so just to in in in a snapshot uh
the final text that made uh that made it
uh says that when you use when you have
a high risk but high-risk AI but used in
the public sector or in specific sector
like banks and so on uh the deployer
needs to um to provide this fundamental
rights impact assessment which is
similar to the data protection impact
assessment of GDPR but in a way they
need to take care think about what could
be the impact on fundamental rights
because of course when you're talking
about AI you don't know the outputs
everything is quite automated so uh
let's say in a way it goes to
yeah it it helps some uh safeguards for
uh for uh and it try to avoid um let's
say bad outcomes so I think uh yeah
these are my two choices
must appreciate your political
correctness both from Javani and from
Vincenso. you managed to dodge this
question in the most perfect of ways
both by saying that the whole book is
great and uh we can confirm to that if
if we are allowed to and both by and I
mean wow uh citing also other chapters
and also other important uh provisions
aside from the ones that you um analyze
is a a great symbol of
um political correction is also
open-mindedness. So uh thank you so much
for this for this answer. And with that
I am told that we also have to make a
fundamental right impact assessment of
the time that we're making you spend on
this podcast which is um exceeding the
normal working hours. So because it's
your free day as well, thank you so much
for joining us here on the legal for
tech the podcast. It was such a pleasure
to talk to you both. And I would also
like to repeat that all of our
listeners, especially our Italian ones,
but I am sure that you can manage to
actually find a solution for our
international ones can find the book.
Um,
our podcast and on all our channels
because this is a great opportunity to
learn a bit more about the Italian
system of its own and uh the artificial
intelligence act from an Italian
perspective. So please do read the book
and let us know what you think. Thank
you so much for joining us today and
thank you Jako for helping me in this
interview.
>> Thank you Rosie.
>> Thank you.
>> And this was all.
>> It was a pleasure.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you so much.
This was all from the legal for tech the
podcast.
[Music]
