<!-- image -->

## AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

## OECD ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE PAPERS

August 2025 No. 44

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## Foreword

This report was approved and declassified by written procedure by the Global Partnership on Artificial Intelligence  (GPAI)  on  25  June  2025  and  prepared  for  publication  by  the  OECD  Secretariat.  Earlier versions  were  discussed  by  the  OECD  Working  Party  on  AI  Governance  (AIGO)  in  outline  form  in November 2023, and in draft form in June 2024. It was also discussed by the GPAI in December 2024.

Note to Delegations:

This document is also available on O.N.E Members &amp; Partners under the reference code: DSTI/DPC/GPAI(2024)3/FINAL

Revised version, August 2025

Page 29:

The bibliographic entry for André, C. et al. (2025) has been amended to reflect the correct author .

This document, as well as any data and map included herein, are without prejudice to the status of or sovereignty  over  any  territory,  to  the  delimitation  of  international  frontiers  and  boundaries  and  to  the name of any territory, city or area.

The  statistical  data  for  Israel  are  supplied  by  and  under  the  responsibility  of  the  relevant  Israeli authorities. The use of such data by the OECD is without prejudice to the status of the Golan Heights, East Jerusalem and Israeli settlements in the West Bank under the terms of international law.

Cover image: © Kjpargeter/Shutterstock.com

© OECD 2025

## Corrigendum

<!-- image -->

## Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)

This  work  is  made  available  under  the  Creative  Commons  Attribution 4.0  International  licence.  By  using  this  work,  you  accept  to  be  bound  by  the  terms  of  this  licence (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

Attribution -you must cite the work.

Translations -you must cite the original work, identify changes to the original and add the following text: In the event of any discrepancy between the original work and the translation, only the text of original work should be considered valid.

Adaptations -you must cite the original work and add the following text: This is an adaptation of an original work by the OECD. The opinions expressed and arguments employed in this adaptation should not be reported as representing the official views of the OECD or of its Member countries.

Third-party material -the licence does not apply to third-party material in the work. If using such material, you are responsible for obtaining permission from the third party and for any claims of infringement.

You must not use the OECD logo, visual identity or cover image without express permission or suggest the OECD endorses your use of the work.

Any dispute arising under this licence shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) Arbitration Rules 2012. The seat of arbitration shall be Paris (France). The number of arbitrators shall be one.

## Acknowledgements

This report was prepared under the aegis of the OECD Working Party on AI Governance (AIGO) and the Global Partnership on AI (GPAI). Karine Perset, Luis Aranda, and Guillermo Hernández (OECD Artificial Intelligence and Emerging Digital Technologies Division) led the report development and drafting, under the  supervision  of  Audrey  Plonk,  Deputy  Director  of  the  OECD  Science,  Technology  and  Innovation Directorate. An earlier version of this report was drafted by Elizabeth Seger (Oxford University).

The paper benefitted significantly from the oral and written contributions of AIGO and GPAI delegates as well  as  experts  from  the  OECD.AI  network  of  experts.  The  authors  would  like  to  extend  their  sincere gratitude  to  the  Delegations  of  Australia,  Brazil,  Canada,  Chile,  Croatia,  the  European  Commission, France, Germany, India, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Slovenia, Sweden, Thailand, Türkiye, the United  Kingdom,  and  the  United  States  for  their  invaluable  insights.  In  particular,  they  gratefully acknowledge contributions from Simon van Hoeve (Australia); Franklin Rodrigues Hoyer (Brazil); Ricardo Baeza-Yates (Chile); Juraj Bilic (Croatia); Jonas Roule (France); Abhishek Singh (India); Ziv Katzir (Israel); Juraj Corba (Slovakia); Polonca Blaznik and Martin Marzidovsek (Slovenia); Jesse Dunietz and David Turnbull (US); Carlos Muñoz Ferrandis (BigScience); Loise Mwarangu (AI Centre of Excellence, Kenya); Marko Grobelnik (Jozef Stefan Institute); and Stuart Russell (UC Berkeley).

The Secretariat would also like to thank stakeholder groups at the OECD for their input, including Pam Dixon  (Civil  Society  Information  Society  Advisory -CSISAC);  Nicole  Primmer  and  Maylis  Berviller (Business at OECD -BIAC); Sarah Jameson and Aida Ponce (Trade Union Advisory Committee -TUAC); and Sebastian Hallensleben and Jibu Elias (Internet Technical Advisory Committee -ITAC).

Finally, the authors thank all those who have contributed to the report throughout its development. This includes Jeff Mollins, Lucia Russo, Kasumi Sugimoto, Sarah Bérubé, and Nikolas Schmidt (OECD/STI); Manuel Betin and Peter Gal (OECD/ECO); and Richard May (OECD/DAF). The authors also thank Anaisa Goncalves,  Shellie  Laffont  and  Andreia  Furtado  for  editorial  support;  the  overall  quality  of  this  report benefitted significantly from their engagement.

## Table of contents

| Foreword                                                                                                                                                | 2   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----|
| Acknowledgements                                                                                                                                        | 4   |
| Abstract                                                                                                                                                | 7   |
| Résumé                                                                                                                                                  | 8   |
| Executive summary                                                                                                                                       | 9   |
| Introduction                                                                                                                                            | 11  |
| 1. Delving into AI openness                                                                                                                             | 12  |
| 1.1. The term open-source AI is a misleading legacy                                                                                                     | 12  |
| 1.2. Degrees of AI openness: The more model components are publicly released, the easier it is for other actors to reproduce, modify, and use the model | 14  |
| 1.3. Licensing choices influence access levels, innovation speed, and the potential for beneficial and harmful uses                                     | 15  |
| 1.4. Clarifying key AI terms: generative AI and foundation models                                                                                       | 15  |
| 1.5. This report explores the trends, benefits and risks of open-weight foundation models                                                               | 15  |
| 2. Evolution of open-weight models                                                                                                                      | 17  |
| 3. Benefits and risks of openly releasing the weights of foundation models                                                                              | 23  |
| 3.1. Illustrative benefits                                                                                                                              | 23  |
| 3.2. Illustrative risks                                                                                                                                 | 24  |
| 3.3. Marginal benefits and risks as part of holistic risk assessments                                                                                   | 26  |
| 4. Conclusions                                                                                                                                          | 28  |
| References                                                                                                                                              | 29  |
| Tables                                                                                                                                                  |     |
| Table 1.1. Components of the Linux Foundation's Model Openness Framework                                                                                | 13  |



12

14

15

15

15

23

24

26

13

## 6  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

| Figures                                                                                                                                                                                          |    |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----|
| Figure 2.1. The supply of foundation models has increased consistently, with open-weight models representing over half of commercially available models                                          | 17 |
| Figure 2.2. The United States, China and France are at the forefront of open-weight model development, with the largest offerings coming from providers in the US, the Netherlands and Singapore | 19 |
| Figure 2.3. Over half of foundation model providers are in the United States                                                                                                                     | 20 |
| Figure 2.4. Significant gains in the quality of open-weight models                                                                                                                               | 22 |
| Boxes                                                                                                                                                                                            |    |
| Box 1.1. Further research is needed to refine and assess open access gradients of AI systems                                                                                                     | 14 |
| Box 2.1. The AIKoD database on active generative AI foundation models                                                                                                                            | 18 |

17

19

20

22

14

18

## Abstract

This report explores the concept of openness in AI, including relevant terminology and how different degrees of openness can exist. It explains why the term "open source," a term rooted in software, does not fully capture the complexities specific to AI. This report analyses current trends in open-weight foundation models using experimental data, illustrating both their potential benefits and associated risks. It incorporates the concept of marginality to further inform this discussion. By presenting information clearly and concisely, the report seeks to support policy discussions on how to balance the openness of generative AI foundation models with responsible governance.

## Résumé

Ce rapport explore le concept d'ouverture dans l'IA, y compris la terminologie pertinente  et  comment  différents  degrés  d'ouverture  peuvent  exister.  Il explique pourquoi le terme "open source", un terme ancré dans le logiciel, ne  capture  pas  pleinement  les  complexités  spécifiques  à  l'IA.  Ce  rapport analyse les tendances actuelles des modèles de fondation à poids ouverts en utilisant des données expérimentales, illustrant à la fois leurs avantages potentiels et les risques associés. Il intègre le concept de marginalité pour enrichir  cette  discussion.  En  présentant  l'information  de  manière  claire  et concise, le rapport vise à soutenir les discussions politiques sur la manière d'équilibrer l'ouverture des modèles de fondation générative de l'IA avec une gouvernance responsable.

## Executive summary

A clearer understanding of AI openness terminology is essential. This report examines key concepts and definitions to foster a common understanding of AI openness, acknowledging that precise terminology is vital for researchers, developers, and policymakers as AI technologies continue to develop.

The  term ' open  source ' in  AI  has  limitations: The  term  'open  source' originates  from  software development and does not accurately describe AI systems. Unlike traditional software, AI 'source code' may  refer  to  inference  code,  training  code,  or  both -and  each  can  be  made  publicly  available independently. Furthermore, AI models can have other critical components such as model weights and training data, which can also be shared or kept private.

AI openness exists on a spectrum: It is not binary but ranges from fully closed systems with restricted access  to  fully  open  models  that  permit  unrestricted  access,  modification,  and  use.  This  spectrum encompasses various system components, including data, code, and documentation. Recognising this range is essential for understanding the policy implications of different levels of openness across these components.

Definition of open-weight AI models in this report: This report uses the term open-weight models to refer to foundation models with publicly available trained weights. These models can generate content and perform  a  variety  of  tasks  across  different  applications.  While  licensing  is  an  important  aspect  of  the discussion  surrounding  the  availability  of  AI  models,  this  report  focuses  on  open  weights  due  to  their growing relevance in policy discussions about the benefits and risks associated with these models.

Market trends and global distribution: Since early 2023, the number of foundation models has surged, with  open-weight  models  now  making  up  over  half  of  the  market.  The  United  States  leads  in  the development of open-weight foundation models, followed by the People's Republic of China (hereafter ' China ' ) and France. The Netherlands and Singapore serve as key provider hubs due to their advanced cloud capabilities, highlighting the global nature of AI deployment.

Rapid  improvements  in  quality: Open-weight  foundation  models  have  significantly  improved  in performance since early 2024, achieving higher scores on common benchmarks. While these advances offer substantial benefits, they also increase potential risks, underscoring the importance of monitoring openness in AI development.

Benefits of open-weight models: Releasing model weights can provide significant advantages, including enabling external evaluation and accountability, accelerating research and innovation, fostering competition, facilitating access to AI technologies, and supporting sensitive data management. However, realising these benefits often depends on access to sufficient computing resources, data, and skilled talent.

Risks of open-weight foundation models: Open-weight models also pose significant risks, including the potential for malicious activities such as deepfakes, advanced cyberattacks, large-scale generation of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) and non-consensual intimate imagery (NCII). There is also the speculative risk of misuse in areas like biology or chemistry. The availability of model weights can empower malicious actors to fine-tune these models for unintended uses or harmful purposes. Furthermore, modifying model weights  can  enable  malicious  actors  to  bypass  some  of  the  safeguards  put  in  place  by  the  original developers.

Deciding on openness: Decisions to release model weights should carefully consider potential benefits and risks. Falling compute costs and more accessible fine-tuning methods lower the barriers to both use and misuse, enhancing the potential advantages of open-weight models while also increasing the risk of harmful applications. It is essential to evaluate the marginal risks and benefits of releasing model weights

## 10  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

in relation to closed models and existing technologies. However, this should be done as part of a broader, holistic risk assessment framework that can adapt to evolving capabilities and usage patterns. Developers and other relevant stakeholders should consider whether the benefits outweigh the risks in a given context and consider the potential opportunity costs of not releasing open-weight models.

## Introduction

Since the 1990s, open-source software (OSS) has proliferated alongside, and often within, commercial software,  encouraging  co-operation,  promoting  software  adoption  including  in  developing  countries  by lowering costs, balancing the market power of major software companies, fostering innovation, enabling upskilling,  and  improving  software  quality  through  community  feedback  (Langenkamp  et  al.,  2022[1]; Engler, 2021[2]; Engler, 2021[3]). Given these and other benefits, the OSS tradition has been inherited by certain groups in the AI community, where an AI model (or some elements of it) are released publicly for anyone to download, modify and distribute, often under the terms of a licence.

There is ongoing debate about the risks, benefits, and trade-offs of making AI models or their components publicly available, particularly regarding increasingly advanced AI foundation models that exhibit generalpurpose capabilities. The debate has gained momentum following recent launches of open-weight models, including Deepseek R1, OpenAI's GPT -OSS, and Alibaba's Qwen.

Numerous  beneficial  uses  of  foundation  models  are  developing  in  healthcare  (Fries  et  al.,  2022[4]), customer support (OpenAI, 2023[5]), immersive gaming  (Marr, 2023[6]), or personalised education (Marr, 2023[7]).  Access  restrictions  to  AI  models  could  stifle  innovation,  limit  external  evaluation,  hinder  the widespread distribution of AI benefits, and concentrate control over future AI technology in the hands of a small number of actors (Goldman, 2023[8]; Creative Commons et al., 2023[9]). However, foundation models can also  be  misused  and  deployed  by  malicious  actors,  for  example,  to  generate  child  sexual  abuse material, infringe intellectual property and privacy rights, or conduct convincing scams in which victims believe they are interacting with trusted friends and family.

Once a model is open, many safeguards to prevent misuse can be circumvented, and actors with sufficient expertise and computing resources could "fine-tune" it to enhance its propensity for misuse. Furthermore, fully removing open models after their release or adding guardrails retroactively to prevent newly identified risks may prove challenging. Restrictions on releasing AI models and their different components could raise questions about intellectual property rights and may enhance security, incentivising innovation and limiting the proliferation of risks.

This report examines the potential risks and benefits of open-weight models -understood as foundation models for which the weights are publicly available -keeping in mind that as the development and adoption of foundation models continue to advance amidst other technological and societal changes, the balance between the risks and benefits of releasing their weights may change.

Although this report focuses on open-weight foundation models, it is important to note that AI models that are not generalpurpose, or 'advanced' in the sense described above, can also pose risks. For example, Urbina et al. (2022[10]) showed that standard, narrow AI tools used within the pharmaceutical industry could be repurposed to assist with the design of biochemical weapons.

The report is organised as follows. Section 1 defines key terms and scope, delving into the different levels of openness in AI and explaining why the term ' open source ', originally used for software, may not fully apply in the AI context. Section 2 analyses current trends in open-weight models using experimental data from the OECD. Section 3 illustrates the potential benefits and risks of open-weight models and presents the concept of marginality. Section 4 concludes.

## 1. Delving into AI openness

This  section  delves  into  the  concepts  and  definitions  that  are  essential  for  establishing  a  shared understanding  of  AI  openness.  As  the  field  of  AI  continues  to  evolve,  clear  terminology  becomes increasingly important for researchers, developers, and policymakers alike.

## 1.1. The term open-source AI is a misleading legacy

The term 'open -source' originates from 'open -source software' (OSS). 'Open -source' was defined in 1998 as a 'social contract' (and later a certification) describing software designed to be publicly available and released under a license that sets the conditions for using, modifying, and distributing the source code. According to the Open Source Initiative (OSI), an open-source software license must meet ten key criteria, which include free source code access, permission for derived works, and no limits on who may use the software or for what purpose (Perens, 1999[11]; Choose a License, 2023[12]) .  In  principle, 'o pen source ' does not necessarily preclude a related commercial activity.

Multiple definitions of open-source AI exist today. OSI released a draft open-source AI definition leveraging the OECD definition of an AI system:

- ' An open-source AI is an AI system made available under terms and in a way that grant the freedoms to: use the system for any purpose and without having to ask for permission; study how  the  system  works  and  inspect  its  components;  modify  the  system  for  any  purpose, including  to  change  its  output;  and  share  the  system  for  others  to  use  with  or  without modification, for any purposes. These freedoms apply both to a fully functional system and to discrete elements of a system. A precondition to exercising these freedoms is to have access to the preferred form for make modification to the system' (OSI, 2025[13]).

The Linux Foundation has also proposed an open-source AI definition that, unlike the OSI draft, entails sharing information about the underlying components (LinuxFoundation, 2024[14]):

- ' Open-source artificial  intelligence  (AI)  models  enable  anyone  to  reuse  and  improve  an  AI model. Open-source AI models include the model architecture (in source code format), model weights  and  parameters,  and  information  about  the  data  used  to  train  the  model  that  are collectively published under licenses, allowing any recipient, without restriction, to use, study, distribute,  sell,  copy,  create  derivative  works  of,  and  make  modifications  to,  the  licensed artifacts or modified versions thereof ' .

The open-source softwar e concept of 'free and publicly downloadable source code' does not translate directly to AI due to differences in how AI models are built compared to traditional software (Finley, 2011[15]; Sijbrandij, 2023[16]) . For A I models, 'source code' could refer to either the inference code, the training code, or both, and the two can be shared independently. AI models have additional components beyond source code, including model weights and training data, all of which can either be shared or kept private and independent from the source code and from each other.

In  particular,  source  code  and  model  weights represent two distinct concepts.  Referring to weights as "open source" is misleading, as they do not constitute source code. Source code comprises instructions

for executing specific tasks, whereas weights are the results of training and fine-tuning processes applied to data. Licenses intended for source code do not directly apply to AI model weights (Sijbrandij, 2023[16]).

For  these  and  other  considerations,  the  term  "open-source  AI"  is  currently  debated.  Some  interpret  it according to the OSI definition of open source, while others see it as encompassing a range of access options, from "non-gated downloadable" models to fully open models. Fully open models, like GPT-J, make all training and inference code, weights, and documentation publicly available. They can be freely used, modified, and distributed, including for commercial purposes. Non-gated downloadable models provide some components, such as training code and model weights, while withholding others. This is in contrast with gated downloadable models that restrict access to certain users.

This debate is illustrated by the framing of AI models like LLaMA, LLaMA2, Dolly, or StableLM, which use the term 'open source' in a way that is inconsistent with OSI's definition of open -source software (Finley, 2011[15];  Maffulli,  2023[17]).  Some  developers  claim their models are open source simply because their weights  are  available  for  download,  even  though  their  licenses  may  restrict  certain  use  cases  and distribution.

The Linux Foundation has proposed a Model Openness Framework (MOF) to help evaluate and classify the openness of AI models, by assessing which components of the model are publicly released and under what licenses (Table 1.1). It defines three progressively broader classes of model openness:

- Class III -Open Model: The minimum bar for entry, Class III requires the public release of the core model (architecture, parameters, basic documentation) under open licenses. This allows model consumers to use, analyse, and build on the model, but limits insight into the development process.
- Class II -Open Tooling: Building on Class III, this tier includes the full suite of code used to train, evaluate, and run the model, plus key datasets. Releasing these components enables the community to better validate the model and investigate issues. It is a significant step towards reproducibility.
- Class I -Open Science: The apex, Class I entails releasing all artifacts following open science principles. In addition to the Class II components, it includes the raw training datasets, a thorough research paper detailing the entire model development process, intermediate checkpoints, log files, and more. This provides unparalleled transparency into the end-to-end development pipeline, empowering collaboration, auditing, and cumulative progress (LinuxFoundation, 2024[18]).

Table  1.1. Components of the Linux Foundation 's Model Openness Framework

The framework identifies 17 critical components for a complete model release.

| Code                | Data                         | Documentation      |
|---------------------|------------------------------|--------------------|
| Evaluation code     | Datasets                     | Data card          |
| Pre-processing code | Evaluation data              | Research paper     |
| Model architecture  | Sample model outputs         | Evaluation results |
| Libraries and tools | Model weights and parameters | Model card         |
| Training code       | Model metadata               | Technical report   |
| Inference code      | Configuration file           |                    |

Note: For each component, the MOF stipulates the use of standard open licenses based on the artifact type: open-source licenses for code (e.g., Apache 2.0, MIT), open-data licenses for datasets and model parameters (e.g., CDLA-Permissive, CC-BY), and open-content licenses for documentation and content/unstructured data (e.g., CC-BY). Sample model outputs can be code or data. Source: Adapted from Linux Foundation (2024[18]).

## 14  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

## 1.2. Degrees of AI openness: The more model components are publicly released, the easier it is for other actors to reproduce, modify, and use the model

Currently,  there  is  a  spectrum  of  model  release  options  available  which  encompass  its  various components, ranging from fully closed systems, where access to the model and its underlying data is highly restricted,  to  fully  open  models,  which  allow  unrestricted  access  and  modification  by  users  (Box  2.1). Understanding  this  spectrum  is  crucial  for  evaluating  the  implications  of  different  access  levels  on innovation, collaboration, and security and other considerations.

## Box  1.1. Further research is needed to refine and assess open access gradients of AI systems

The landscape of AI model release options is diverse, encompassing a spectrum from fully closed models to various degrees  of  openness,  including  gradual  or  staged  releases,  hosted  access,  cloud-based  API  access,  downloadable models,  and  fully  open  models.  By  systematically  examining  the  different  release  strategies,  researchers  and policymakers  can  identify  the  associated  benefits  and  drawbacks  of  each  approach,  including  issues  related  to transparency and security.

Further research is essential to advance the responsible deployment of AI technologies. This research should aim to establish good practices for model sharing that balance openness and security, protect intellectual property and sensitive data, and promote more equitable access and responsible use of AI systems. Such efforts will contribute to a more informed and strategic approach to AI model dissemination.

Source: Solaiman (2023[19]); Sastry (2023[20]); Liang et al. (2022[21]) .

Access to model architecture and trained weights, when combined with inference code, is enough for using a pre-trained model to perform specific tasks. Downstream developers can write their own inference code or even generate it using tools such as ChatGPT, and it does not need to match the original code used by the model developer. Having access to model weights also allows downstream developers to fine-tune and optimise the model for specific tasks and applications or modify its behaviour as needed. Additionally, releasing parts of the training code, such as the code for cleaning and loading training data, can help developers reproduce the training weights and utilise the model more easily.

Sometimes, an AI developer publicly releases the training and inference code for a model, but not the trained model weights (Meta, 2023[22]; Vincent, 2023[23]). In such cases, actors with sufficient computing resources and data access could train an equivalent model and use inference code to run it. However, few actors currently have the computing resources needed to train advanced foundation models.

Recently,  several  developers  have  restricted  access  to  some  of  their  models  due  to  concerns  about competition and potential misuse. These developers may choose to keep their models completely private, like DeepMind's  Chinchilla (Hoffmann  et al.,  2022[24])  or  share  them  in  a  controlled  manner,  such  as OpenAI's GPT -4  (OpenAI,  2023[25]) and Anthropic's  Claude  2 (Anthropic,  2023[26])  through  application programming interfaces (APIs)  (Brockman et al.,  2023[27]). This approach allows them to enforce  user restrictions and maintain better control over features. In contrast, some developers have advocated for more open models. Meta, for example, announced the 'open -source' release of I-JEPA (Assran et al., 2023[28]),  Llama  2  (Inskeep  and  Hampton,  2023[29];  Milmo,  2023[30]),  and  Llama  3,  but  faced  criticism including from OSI for the access restrictions placed on its models (Anandira, 2024[31]). These examples illustrate the difference between the traditional definition of open-source software and the varying degrees of openness in AI models.

## 1.3. Licensing choices influence access levels, innovation speed, and the potential for beneficial and harmful uses

Licensing in ' open-source ' AI governs many terms under which AI models, including their weights and associated code, can be used, modified, and distributed. Unlike proprietary models that restrict access to discrete users or that customise licensing access conditions or provide exclusivity, open-source AI offers various licensing schemes that grant different nonexclusive standardised conditions to all users, generally for free. Permissive licenses, such as Apache 2.0 or MIT, typically allow for broad usage, modification, and commercialization with minimal restrictions beyond attribution and disclaimers (OSI, 2025[32]). Conversely, more restrictive or "copyleft" licenses, like certain versions of Creative Commons, may require that any derivative  works  also  be  shared  under  the  same  or  similar  open-source  terms,  aiming  to  ensure  the continued  openness of the AI ecosystem (Commons, 2025[33]). The choice of license can significantly impact collaboration, innovation, adoption, and the potential for beneficial and harmful uses of AI models.

While a detailed discussion of specific AI model licensing is outside the scope of this analysis, it's crucial to acknowledge their pivotal role in shaping the current and future landscape. Licensing decisions directly influence who can access and build upon AI models, impacting the pace of development and the potential for  both  beneficial  and  harmful  applications.  For  instance,  more  permissive  nonexclusive  licenses  can accelerate innovation by allowing widespread experimentation and integration into commercial products, but they might also offer fewer safeguards against misuse by malicious actors. Conversely, more restrictive licenses may often be necessary to incentivise model development and investment for specific market needs, but they could also inadvertently limit collaboration. Understanding the nuances of AI licensing is essential for formulating effective policies relating to the release and use of these technologies.

## 1.4. Clarifying key AI terms: generative AI and foundation models

AI models are actionable representations of all or part of the external context or environment of an AI system (encompassing, for example, processes, objects, ideas, people and/or interactions taking place in context). AI models use data and/or expert knowledge provided by humans and/or automated tools to represent, describe and interact with real or virtual environments (OECD, 2022[34]).

Generative  AI  (genAI)  models create  new  outputs  (e.g.,  text,  code,  audio,  images,  video),  often  in response to prompts, based on their training data (OECD, 2023[35]).

Foundation models ,  sometimes referred to as or categoris ed under ' general-purpose ' AI  models, are machine learning models that can be adapted to perform a wide range of downstream tasks, such as tasks involving text synthesis, behaviour prediction, image analysis and content generation (Bommasani et al., 2022[36]; Jones, 2023[37]). Foundation models can be standalone or integrated into a variety of downstream AI systems and models, either directly or after additional training referred to as 'fine -tuning.' There are two primary types of foundation models: generative models, which learn the patterns and distribution of input data to create new, plausible outputs (such as OpenAI's GPTs) , and discriminative models, which predict data labels by distinguishing between different classes in a dataset (like Google's BERT) (OECD, 2022[34]). It is important to note that not all generative or discriminative models qualify as foundation models.

## 1.5. This report explores the trends, benefits and risks of open-weight foundation models

For the purposes of this report, 'open -weight models' refe r to foundation models for which at least the trained  model  weights  are  publicly  available  for  download  for  local  deployments.  These  models  are

## 16 | AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

characterised by their ability to generate content, perform various tasks, and adapt to different applications based on the data they have been trained on.

As  noted  above,  there  are  discriminative  foundation  models,  and  generative  AI  models  that  are  not foundation models. Additionally, there are benefits and risks associated with openly sharing the weights of machine  learning  models  that  are  neither  generative  nor  foundation  models.  The  decision  to  focus on generative AI foundation models responds to feedback from national delegations on earlier versions of this report, the substantial efforts required to collect relevant data (see Section 2), and the relevance of this technology in current policy discussions.

Licensing  considerations  are  beyond  the  scope  of  this  report.  While  licensing  undeniably  shapes  how models  are  used  and  shared,  its  legal  and  jurisdictional  complexity  makes  it  impractical  to  address comprehensively  in  this  report.  Nonetheless,  licensing  remains  a  critical  factor  in  the  deployment  and deployment of open-weight models and may warrant dedicated analysis in future work. By narrowing our scope, we aim to provide a clearer, more actionable discussion on open-weight foundation models.

## 2. Evolution of open-weight models

Since OpenAI launched GPT-3.5 (ChatGPT) in November 2022, the market for generative AI models has experienced  significant  growth,  fuelled  by  new  developers  entering  the  field  and  existing  developers introducing new models. Figure 2.1 reveals a marked acceleration in the global supply of generative AI foundation models, particularly from mid-2024 onward. Notably, open-weight models have not only kept pace with this growth but now account for approximately 55% of all available models as of April 2025. This suggests a trend toward a greater development and provision of open-weight models. This data focusses on foundation models made available commercially by one or more providers through an API endpoint, and is the product of OECD research on developments in AI markets (Box 2.1).

## Figure  2.1. The supply of foundation models has increased consistently, with open-weight models representing over half of commercially available models

Number of unique closed and open-weight models made commercially available from providers worldwide each month through an API endpoint.

<!-- image -->

Note: Open weights indicate that the trainable weights -parameters optimised during training and fine-tuning -are made available for download for local deployments. See André et al. (2025[38]) for more details on the methodology.

Source:  OECD.AI  (2025),  data  from  the  AIKoD  experimental  database  (internal),  last  updated  2025-04-30,  accessed  on  2025-05-14, https://oecd.ai/.

## 18  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

Figure 2.2  illustrates  the  evolving  landscape  of  open-weight  model  development  and  provision  across countries.  The  United  States  leads  in  both  dimensions,  reflecting  its  robust  AI  ecosystem  and  cloud infrastructure. China and France also emerge as key developers, while the Netherlands and Singapore

<!-- image -->



stand out as major provider hubs, despite having fewer domestic developers. This divergence underscores the  global  nature  of  AI  deployment,  where  models  are  often  hosted  in  countries  with  advanced  cloud capabilities, regardless of their origin. The data also reveals a growing international dispersion of model provision.

Figure  2.2. The United States, China and France are at the forefront of open-weight model development, with the largest offerings coming from providers in the US, the Netherlands and Singapore

<!-- image -->

## 20  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

Note: "Developers" are firms that pre-train and fine-tune an AI model, which is then made available commercially by one or more providers through an API endpoint for users, such as OpenAI, Anthropic, and Google. 'Provider' refers to the cloud service company that supports and hosts the model. "Country" refers to where either the developers (panel a) or the providers (panel b) are based. Some companies, like OpenAI, Google, Microsoft, and Amazon, both develop and provide models, while others, like Meta, only develop models. Additionally, some companies, such as ReplicateAI, PerplexityAI, and Deep Infra, only provide models created by other developers. A single developer can offer multiple models in different formats and can distribute them via different cloud providers. See André et al. (2025[38]) for more details on the methodology. Source:  OECD.AI  (2025),  data  from  the  AIKoD  experimental  database  (internal),  last  updated  2025-04-30,  accessed  on  2025-05-14, https://oecd.ai/.

Figure 2.3 highlights the geographic concentration of foundation model providers, revealing United States dominance, which accounts for over half of all providers globally. This leadership is also present in the development of open-weight models. While several other countries such as China, the United Kingdom, France, and Germany also contribute to the ecosystem, their presence is markedly smaller.

## Figure  2.3. Over half of foundation model providers are in the United States

a) Provider count per country, all foundation models.

<!-- image -->

## b) Provider count per country, open-weight models.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Note: 'Provider' refers to the cloud service company that supports and hosts the model. See André et al. (2025[38]) for more details on the methodology.

Source:  OECD.AI  (2025),  data  from  the  AIKoD  experimental  database  (internal),  last  updated  2025-04-30,  accessed  on  2025-05-14, https://oecd.ai/.

The supply of generative AI foundation models is predominantly driven by text-to-text models, including coding assistants and models with multi-modal features. These models account for 78% of all offerings. Text-to-image models, which focus on image generation, represent 18% of the total supply, while audioto-text models make up a smaller share at 2.5%. Notably, the average quality of open-weight text-to-text models -including foundation models and all their variants and updates -has seen rapid improvement since early 2024, as illustrated in  Figure 2.4. This trend highlights the significant advancements in the performance of LLMs over a short period of time.

## AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS  21

## 22  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

## Figure  2.4. Significant gains in the quality of open-weight models

Average quality (performance) of text-to-text open-weight models over time.

<!-- image -->

Note: The quality index is a normalised weighted measure that reflects how well a model performs a task, based on standard benchmarks of the industry acquired from Artificial Analysis and Hugging Face. Text-totext models take the average across Hugging Face's MMLU scores, Arena ELO scores, and the GPQA value. Quality is averaged across all model offerings, even when the same model is offered by multiple providers. Please note that this is an average, so a drop in quality may happen if the proportion of lower-quality models increases. See André et al. (2025[38]) for more details on the methodology.

Source:  OECD.AI  (2025),  data  from  the  AIKoD  experimental  database  (internal),  last  updated  2025-04-30,  accessed  on  2025-05-14, https://oecd.ai/.

The data in this section indicates that open-weight models are increasing in both quantity and quality. Recent  launches  of  openweight  models,  such  as  OpenAI's  GPT -OSS,  underscore  this  point.  This highlights  the  need  to  monitor  openness  in  AI  development  and  deployment  as  a  key  dimension  of technological access and policy approaches.

## 3. Benefits and risks of openly releasing the weights of foundation models

This section highlights some of the benefits and risks associated with open-weight models. Rather than providing a comprehensive overview, it aims to illustrate key advantages, such as enhanced innovation and collaboration, alongside potential challenges, including privacy concerns and the risk of malicious use. By presenting this information clearly and concisely, the section seeks to inform policy discussions on balancing the openness of generative AI foundation models with responsible AI policy approaches.

## 3.1. Illustrative benefits

The benefits of open-weight models encompass a range of illustrative examples, presented here in no particular order:

- Facilitate beneficial innovation: Open-weight models can accelerate AI research and development,  driving  innovation  and  the  integration  of  new  downstream  applications  (Creative Commons et al., 2023[9]; Engler, 2021[2]; Engler, 2021[3]). These models allow developers to build on existing technologies, promoting collaboration and experimentation that can lead to significant advancements  across  industries.  This  collaborative  environment  accelerates  innovation  and encourages the exploration of new use cases, ultimately broadening AI's impact on everyday life (Gans, 2025[39]).
- External evaluation : Open-weight models facilitate independent evaluations of projects by wider communities  of  developers  and  contributions  from  individuals,  thus  enabling  more  robust evaluations of performance and risk. Involving the wider AI community also facilitates audit and analysis of open-weight models and their components ( e.g. , training data, weights, documentation) which can help detect bugs, biases, and other issues (Creative Commons et al., 2023[9]; Bommasani et al., 2023[40]). Also, assessing whether the model performs as well as its creators claim is a key form of evaluation.
- Enable  efficiencies  in  AI  development: Open-weight  models  enable  large-scale  collaborative efforts and allow downstream developers to optimise existing models instead of having to start from scratch  for  each  new  application -which  may  help  reduce  resource  consumption  and  costs associated to AI development (HuggingFace, 2023[41]).
- Facilitate talent development: Opening the weights of foundation models could enhance talent development. More people being able to interact with pre-trained cutting edge-models may, over time, lead to a larger AI talent pool and, in the longer run, help address the digital divide by enabling initiatives from across regions.
- Expand  use,  adoption,  and  market  choice: Open-weight  models  expand  the  developer community  and  foster  competition by lowering barriers to innovation and  entry, enabling collaboration and providing opportunities for skill development. This encourages participation from individuals in new or less common regions and backgrounds, leading to the creation of applications

## 24  AI OPENNESS: A PRIMER FOR POLICYMAKERS

that  address  the  specific  needs  of  various  user  groups,  such  as  generative  AI  tools  for  various languages and cultural contexts. This could in turn enable a wider range of people to use and benefit from AI applications.

- Support  sensitive  data  management: Open-weight  models  facilitate  the  adoption  of  AI  by businesses  and  governments  that  may  lack  the  resources  to  develop  proprietary  AI  solutions independently and possess sensitive data that cannot be shared with vendors of closed-weight models (The White House, 2025[42]).
- Enable on-device solutions: Direct  access  to  model  weights  facilitates  on-device  deployment, crucial for offline functionality or in environments with stringent privacy requirements. This eliminates reliance on internet connectivity and third-party API access and could help to address concerns around data transmission and control (Zheng, Chen and Bin, 2024[43]).
- Improve digital security and safeguards: Releasing foundation model weights can strengthen cybersecurity by enabling red teams to legally test and simulate potential attack scenarios using the same tools adversaries might exploit. This enhances adversary emulation, allowing for more realistic and effective defence strategies. Moreover, open-weight models can be more easily customised to implement safeguards tailored to specific operational contexts.
- Prevent unintended and harmful behaviours: Open-weight foundation models can help prevent unintended and harmful behaviours, such as the generation of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) and privacy violations. By providing greater access to model weights, architectures and training data and processes, researchers can better identify the causes of such behaviours, align AI outputs with user values, and improve the detection of AI-generated content. This transparency allows for more effective evaluation and fine-tuning of models, ultimately leading to trustworthy AI systems that are less likely to produce harmful results (Al-Kharusi et al., 2024[44]; Thiel, 2023[45]; Hendrycks et al., 2022[46]).
- Enhance alignment and explainability research: Alignment research seeks to ensure that  AI systems reflect user or developer preferences and values, often requiring model fine-tuning through methods like reinforcement learning. While this fine-tuning can be done via APIs (OpenAI, 2023[47]), these  interfaces  may  not  always  provide  sufficient  information  about  the  underlying  models  for meaningful  analysis.  Additionally,  some  aspects  of  explainability  research  necessitate  direct modifications to model parameters and activation patterns, which require full or nearly full access to the models.
- Distribute influence: Open-weight model development allows a wide community to influence AI's evolution.  This  distribution  has  economic,  social,  and  political  implications,  which  may  enable broader sharing of AI's potential benefits (Bommasani et al., 2023[40]; Howard, 2023[48]; LAION.ai, 2023[49]).

While the benefits of open-weight models are significant, their realisation may be limited by access to computing power, data resources, and available talent.

## 3.2. Illustrative risks

The  risks  of  open-weight  models  encompass  a  range  of  illustrative  examples,  presented  here  in  no particular order:

- Downstream impacts and proliferation of risks : Both open- and closed-weight foundation models can be used or combined with other tools, models or services (e.g., such as the Internet or thirdparty APIs) in unintended or harmful ways. However, open-weight models increase the accessibility for a wider range of users -including malicious actors -to fine-tune, modify and deploy models

without the original developer's control .  This  greater accessibility  can accelerate the spread and amplification of existing risks, unresolved issues and vulnerabilities (Bran et al., 2023[50]; Boiko et al.,  2023[51]).  Additionally,  safeguards  implemented  by  foundation  model  developers -including guardrails  to  alleviate  inaccurate  outcomes -may  be  weakened  or  removed  when  models  are altered downstream, potentially leading to new or unforeseen issues. While closed models also carry risks, their restricted access can limit the scale and speed at which these risks propagate.

- Challenges  in  monitoring  and  fixing: While  structured  API  access  allows  for  monitoring  and potential harm detection, open-weight models rely on downstream developers to implement fixes. This can hinder effective integration of updates, as developers may avoid updating due to lack of skills or resources or simply to retain certain  model functionalities, complicating the resolution of risks and vulnerabilities downstream. Once model weights are publicly available, complete recalling of the model and removal of all copies is unfeasible (Bengio et al., 2025[52]).
- Model vulnerability exposure: Releasing the weights of one model can reveal vulnerabilities in other models and enable more sophisticated jailbreaking . For example, researchers have developed techniques  that  leverage  the  weights  of  a  model  to  create  "adversarial  suffixes",  which  are sequences that, when appended to a query, compel the model to produce harmful content. This method, developed using open-weight models, is transferable and can also be applied to closedweights models. Thus, releasing one model's weights could e xpose vulnerabilities in others (Zou et al., 2023[53]).
- Intellectual property violations: Releasing the weights of foundation models may present risks to intellectual  property  rights,  primarily  concerning  the  unauthorised  reproduction,  adaptation,  and commercial  exploitation  of  copyrighted  material  used  in  their  training  data.  Research  has demonstrated that LLMs can indeed memorise and extract copyrighted content to varying extents, with  this  information  being  stored  within  the  model  parameters  (Cooper  et al.,  2025[54]).  Once weights are public, the original developers lose control over how the models are used or altered, making it challenging to track and prevent misuse that could lead to copyright violations.
- Malicious  use: Releasing  the  weights  of  foundation  models  can  increase  their  vulnerability  to malicious use. With access to a model's weights and architecture, individuals with the necessary knowledge, skills,  and  compute  resources  can  write  or  modify  inference  code  to  run  the  model without the protocols typically implemented by closed model providers. This allows them to fine-tune the model, potentially allowing or enhancing harmful outputs. Fine-tuning can also be performed on closed models through an API. However, such fine-tuning can be monitored, e.g., the API owner can inspect the contents of the fine-tuning data set, which may allow them to prevent or at least detect  malicious  activity.  Fine-tuning  open-weight  models  generally  requires  a  higher  level  of technical expertise compared to proprietary, "ready-to-use" AI services. Examples of malicious use include:
- o Digital  security  risks :  Releasing  model  weights  could  provide  both  malicious  actors  and cybersecurity red teams with increased novel means to conduct, analyse, and emulate offensive cyber  activities  (Mirsky  et al.,  2021[55];  Buchanan,  2020[56]).  While  open  weights  can  benefit cybersecurity defenders, they often require complex infrastructure that is not affordable for many cyber actors. However, small open-weight models can help malicious actors automate phishing campaigns, conduct opensource intelligence (OSINT) research, and perform routine programming tasks. Because offensive cyber tasks often look similar to software engineering in defensive  cybersecurity,  developers  of  both  open-weight  and  proprietary  models  find  it challenging to effectively  prevent  misuse.  Some researchers argue that  because foundation models are more complex than regular software, releasing model weights may favour attackers, as  quick  access  may  allow  them  to  exploit  vulnerabilities  more  rapidly,  while  developing

solutions takes time and resources. Even when solutions are created, they may not fully resolve the issues  (Shevlane and Dafoe, 2020[57]).

- o Generation of child sexual abuse material (CSAM) and non-consensual intimate imagery (NCII): Research indicates that releasing the weights of image-generation models like Stable Diffusion  has  led  to  a  significant  rise  in  the  creation  of  NCII  and  CSAM,  highlighting  the challenges of monitoring the use of open-weight models (Thiel, Stroebel and Portnoff, 2023[58]). While techniques such as prompt filtering and output filtering can reduce the likelihood of harm from generated CSAM or NCII, it is more difficult to enforce the use of such techniques with open-weight models than with models provided as a service. The widespread distribution of CSAM and NCII creates significant harm to women, teenagers, and other vulnerable groups.
- o Privacy risks: The accessibility of foundation model weights trained on sensitive or personally identifiable information increases privacy risks by enabling more effective membership inference (i.e., attackers exploit open model weights to determine if a specific data point was part of the training set); attribute inference (i.e., attackers leverage open model weights to deduce sensitive characteristics about the aggregate training data); and exploitation of memorisation vulnerabilities (i.e., attackers leverage open weights to facilitate the identification and extraction of specific private data points inadvertently memorised by the model). These methods could result in the extraction of sensitive training data from the model (Kandpal et al., 2024[59]; Nasr et al., 2023[60]; Carlini et al., 2022[61]).
- Unpredictable  agentic  deployments :  Some  current  and  emerging  applications  of  foundation models allow these models to access external tools to interact with their environment (Yong, Shi and Zhang, 2025[62]). This approach leverages the broad knowledge and generative capabilities of a foundation model as an autonomous agent. Releasing the weights of a highly capable foundation model could facilitate a substantial expansion in the range of tools and environments it can access, leading to more complex attribution challenges and unpredictable interactions in both physical and virtual environments.

Some of the risks associated with releasing foundation model weights are still speculative. For example, some experts  suggest  that  open-weight  models  could  be  misused  in  biological  or  chemical  contexts, although the evidence remains inconclusive (Mouton, Lucas and Guest, 2024[63]; Peppin et al., 2025[64]). Additionally,  the  risks  posed  by  open-weight  models  share  similarities  with  those  posed  by  other technologies,  such  as  Internet  search  engines  or  closed-weight  models,  and  these  risks  could  be heightened or reduced by releasing model weights.

## 3.3. Marginal benefits and risks as part of holistic risk assessments

Emphasising the importance of assessing risks and benefits "on the margin" -the additional risks and benefits associated with releasing foundation model weights, compared to risks posed by closed models or existing technology -is crucial for understanding the true impact of open-weight models (Bengio et al., 2025[52]). This approach allows stakeholders to evaluate how these models compare to existing tools and practices -both AI and non-AI -as well as to consider the potential outcomes in their absence (Kapoor et al., 2024[65]).

For example, if an open-weight model enhances productivity in content creation compared to traditional methods, the marginal benefit presents an argument in favour of open release. Conversely, if the risks associated  with  malicious  use  are  significantly  greater  than  those  posed  by  existing  technologies,  it becomes essential to evaluate whether the new models offer improved risk mitigation strategies or greater benefits that justify their release.

It is also helpful for decision-making based on marginal impact to consider alternative methods other than releasing model weights for achieving the same benefits, and alternatives other than withholding model weights for mitigating identified risks (Whittlestone and Ovadya, 2020[66]).

By focusing on marginal assessments, decision-makers can better gauge whether the advantages of openweight  models  outweigh  the  potential  downsides.  Addressing  marginal  risk  is  crucial  to  ensure  that interventions  are  appropriate  and  proportional  to  the  level  of  risk  involved  (Kapoor  et al.,  2024[65]). However, it's important to recognise that this is just one approach to risk assessment. Depending on the context,  other  baselines  may  be  more  appropriate.  A  key  concern  with  relying  solely  on  marginal comparisons is the  potential for  a  'boiling  frog'  effect,  where  overall  risk  tolerance  inc reases as each successive model is compared to an increasingly permissive baseline, especially as model capabilities evolve or usage patterns shift. A more holistic and adaptive risk framework is needed to ensure that AI development and deployment remains trustworthy.

## 4. Conclusions

Releasing foundation model weights has many benefits, such as allowing external evaluation, speeding up innovation, and spreading control over a potentially transformative technology. Open-source practices in  the  software  industry  have  shown  substantial  benefits,  distributing  influence  over  the  direction  of technological  innovation  and  facilitating  the  development  of  products  that  can  reach  new  audiences. However, releasing foundation model weights also presents potential for malicious use and unintended consequences,  such  as  cyberattacks,  sexual  abuse,  and  violation  of  intellectual  property  and  privacy rights. Because of the significant potential risks and benefits, foundation models need careful consideration when they are shared and used.

Opening the weights of foundation models does not inherently result in malicious use, as these models can  have  both  positive  and  negative  impacts  depending  on  the  context  and  application.  To  better understand the trade-offs of open-weight models, it is important to evaluate each one in the context of their specific applications and compare these benefits and risks to those of existing tools. This approach helps identify any additional -or marginal -benefits and risks that may arise.

While  initial  assessments  suggest  that  certain  risks  associated  with  open-weight  models,  such  as  the generation of malicious content, share similarities with existing digital tools, rapid advancements in AI -including  significantly  decreasing  compute  costs  (Hobbhahn  and  Besiroglu,  2022[67])  and  increasingly accessible  fine-tuning  techniques  (Yang  et al.,  2024[68]) -could  dramatically  lower  the  technical  and financial barriers for a broader range of actors, including those seeking to develop harmful applications or bypass security mechanisms.

Therefore, developers should carefully weigh the decision to release model weights, considering the full range of marginal benefits and risks and the full range of options for achieving the benefits or mitigating the risks.

While  this  report  examines  the  availability  of  open-weight  foundation  models,  future  research  could investigate the actual usage of these models and the underlying reasons for their application, particularly focusing  on  the  economic  implications  and  spillover  effects  associated  with  their  development  and deployment. Analysing who produces these models -ranging from large tech companies to academic institutions -and who uses them, including governments, startups and individual consumers, is crucial for understanding the dynamics of the evolving AI ecosystem.

## References

| Al-Kharusi, Y. et al. (2024), 'Open -Source Artificial Intelligence Privacy and Security: A Review', Computers , Vol. 13/12, p. 311, https://doi.org/10.3390/computers13120311.                                                                                                                                                   | [44]   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Anandira, H. (2024), 'Meta Platforms under fire over open -source AI branding ', Mobile World Live , https://www.mobileworldlive.com/ai-cloud/meta-platforms-under-fire-over-open- source-ai-branding/.                                                                                                                           | [31]   |
| André, C. et al. (2025), 'Developments in Artificial Intelligence markets: New indicators based on model characteristics, prices and providers: New indicators based on model characteristics, prices and providers' , OECD Artificial Intelligence Papers , No. 37, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/9302bf46-en. | [38]   |
| Anthropic (2023), Claude 2 , Anthropc, https://www.anthropic.com/index/claude-2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | [26]   |
| Assran, M. et al. (2023), Self-Supervised Learning from Images with a Joint-Embedding Predictive Architecture , https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2301.08243v3.                                                                                                                                                                      | [28]   |
| Bengio, Y. et al. (2025), 'International AI Safety Report (DSIT 2025/001, 2025)', https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/international-ai-safety-report-2025.                                                                                                                                                                 | [52]   |
| Boiko et al. (2023), Emergent autonomous scientific research capabilities of large language models , http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05332.                                                                                                                                                                                             | [51]   |
| Bommasani et al. (2022), On the Opportunities and Risks of Foundation Models , http://arxiv.org/abs/2108.07258.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | [36]   |
| Bommasani, R. et al. (2023), Considerations for Governing Open Foundation Models , https://hai.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/2023-12/Governing-Open-Foundation-Models.pdf.                                                                                                                                                     | [40]   |
| Bran et al. (2023), ChemCrow: Augmenting large-language models with chemistry tools , http://arxiv.org/abs/2304.05376.                                                                                                                                                                                                            | [50]   |
| Brockman, G. et al. (2023), Introducing ChatGPT and Whisper APIs , https://openai.com/blog/introducing-chatgpt-and-whisper-apis.                                                                                                                                                                                                  | [27]   |
| Buchanan, B. (2020), A National Security Research Agenda for Cybersecurity and Artificial Intelligence , https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/a-national-security-research-agenda- for-cybersecurity-and-artificial-intelligence/.                                                                                             | [56]   |



[44]



| Carlini, N. et al. (2022), 'Membership Inference Attacks From First Principles', 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pp. 1897-1914, https://doi.org/10.1109/sp46214.2022.9833649.                              | [61]   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Choose a License (2023), Licenses , Choose a License, https://choosealicense.com/licenses/.                                                                                                                                   | [12]   |
| Commons, C. (2025), About CC Licenses: The CC License options , https://creativecommons.org/share-your-work/cclicenses/ (accessed on 10 May 2025).                                                                            | [33]   |
| Cooper, A. et al. (2025), Extracting memorized pieces of (copyrighted) books from open- weight language models , arXiv, https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.12546.                                                                     | [54]   |
| Creative Commons et al. (2023), Supporting Open Source and Open Science in the EU AI Act , https://creativecommons.org/2023/07/26/supporting-open-source-and-open-science- in-the-eu-ai-act/.                                 | [9]    |
| DiBona, C., S. Ockman and M. Stone (eds.) (1999), The Open Source Definition , O'Reilly.                                                                                                                                      | [11]   |
| Engler, A. (2021), How open-source software shapes AI policy , Brookings, https://www.brookings.edu/articles/how-open-source-software-shapes-ai-policy/.                                                                      | [2]    |
| Engler, A. (2021), The EU's attempt to regulate open -source AI is counterproductive , Brookings, https://www.brookings.edu/blog/techtank/2022/08/24/the-eus-attempt-to- regulate-open-source-ai-is-counterproductive.        | [3]    |
| Finley, K. (2011), How to Spot Openwashing , readwrite, https://readwrite.com/how_to_spot_openwashing/.                                                                                                                       | [15]   |
| Fries et al. (2022), How Foundation Models Can Advance AI in Healthcare , Stanford HAI, https://hai.stanford.edu/news/how-foundation-models-can-advance-ai-healthcare.                                                        | [4]    |
| Gans, J. (2025), Growth in AI Knowledge , National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w33907/w33907.pdf.                                                                    | [39]   |
| Goldman, S. (2023), Hugging Face, GitHub and more unite to defend open source in EU AI legislation , VentureBeat, https://venturebeat.com/ai/hugging-face-github-and-more-unite- to-defend-open-source-in-eu-ai-legislation/. | [8]    |
| Hendrycks, D. et al. (2022), Unsolved Problems in ML Safety , https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.13916 (accessed on 24 July 2023).                                                                                                    | [46]   |
| Hobbhahn, M. and T. Besiroglu (2022), Trends in GPU Price-Performance , https://epochai.org/blog/trends-in-gpu-price-performance (accessed on 23 July 2023).                                                                  | [67]   |
| Hoffmann, J. et al. (2022), 'Training Compute - Optimal Large Language Models', arXiv , https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15556.                                                                                                     | [24]   |
| Howard, J. (2023), AI Safety and the Age of Dislightenment , https://www.fast.ai/posts/2023- 11-07-dislightenment.html (accessed on 31 July 2023).                                                                            | [48]   |
| HuggingFace, C. (2023), Supporting Open Source and Open Science in the EU AI Act , https://huggingface.co/blog/assets/eu_ai_act_oss/supporting_OS_in_the_AIAct.pdf.                                                           | [41]   |

[61]



[29]

| Inskeep, S. and O. Hampton (2023), Meta leans on 'wisdom of crowds' in AI model release , NPR, https://www.npr.org/2023/07/19/1188543421/metas-nick-clegg-on-the-companys- decision-to-offer-ai-tech-as-open-source-softwa.                                                                                                                                                  | [29]   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Jones, E. (2023), What is a foundation model? , Ada Lovelace Institute, https://www.adalovelaceinstitute.org/resource/foundation-models-explainer/.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          | [37]   |
| Kandpal, N. et al. (2024), 'User Inference Attacks on Large Language Models', https://arxiv.org/pdf/2310.09266.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | [59]   |
| Kapoor, S. et al. (2024), On the Societal Impact of Open Foundation Models , https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.07918v1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | [65]   |
| LAION.ai (2023), A Call to Protect Open-Source AI in Europe , https://laion.ai/notes/letter-to- the-eu-parliament (accessed on 21 September 2023).                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | [49]   |
| Langenkamp et al. (2022), 'How Open Source Machine Learning Software Shapes AI', Proceedings of the 2022 AAAI/ACM Conference on AI, Ethics, and Society , https://doi.org/10.1145/3514094.3534167.                                                                                                                                                                           | [1]    |
| Liang, P. et al. (2022), The Time Is Now to Develop Community Norms for the Release of Foundation Models , Stanford CERM, https://crfm.stanford.edu/2022/05/17/community- norms.html.                                                                                                                                                                                        | [21]   |
| LinuxFoundation (2024), Embracing the Future of AI with Open Source and Open Science Models , https://lfaidata.foundation/blog/2024/10/25/embracing-the-future-of-ai-with-open- source-and-open-science-models/ (accessed on 21 January 2025).                                                                                                                               | [14]   |
| LinuxFoundation (2024), Introducing the Model Openness Framework: Promoting Completeness and Openness for Reproducibility, Transparency and Usability in AI , https://lfaidata.foundation/blog/2024/04/17/introducing-the-model-openness-framework- promoting-completeness-and-openness-for-reproducibility-transparency-and-usability-in-ai/ (accessed on 21 January 2025). | [18]   |
| Maffulli, S. (2023), Meta's LLaMa 2 license is not Open Source , open source initiative, https://opensource.org/blog/metas-llama-2-license-is-not-open-source.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | [17]   |
| Marr, B. (2023), Digital Twins, Generative AI, And The Metaverse , Forbes, https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2023/05/23/digital-twins-generative-ai-and-the- metaverse.                                                                                                                                                                                               | [6]    |
| Marr, B. (2023), The Amazing Ways Duolingo Is Using AI And GPT-4 , Forbes, https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2023/04/28/the-amazing-ways-duolingo-is- using-ai-and-gpt-4/.                                                                                                                                                                                            | [7]    |
| Meta (2023), Introducing LLaMA: A foundational, 65-billion-parameter large language model , https://ai.facebook.com/blog/large-language-model-llama-meta-ai/.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | [22]   |
| Milmo, D. (2023), Nick Clegg defends release of open-source AI model by Meta , The Guardian, https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2023/jul/19/nick-clegg-defends- release-open-source-ai-model-meta-facebook.                                                                                                                                                              | [30]   |
| Mirsky, Y. et al. (2021), The Threat of Offensive AI to Organizations , http://arxiv.org/abs/2106.15764 (accessed on 19 September 2023).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | [55]   |

[63]

| Mouton, C., C. Lucas and E. Guest (2024), 'The Operational Risks of AI in Large -Scale Biological Attacks: Results from a Red- Team Study', RAND Research Report , https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RRA2977-2.html.   | [63]   |
|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Nasr, M. et al. (2023), 'Scalable Extraction of Training Data from (Production) Language Models', https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.17035.                                                                                             | [60]   |
| OECD (2023), 'AI language models: Technological, socio-economic and policy considerations' , OECD Digital Economy Papers , No. 352, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/13d38f92-en.                                | [35]   |
| OECD (2022), 'OECD Framework for the Classification of AI systems' , OECD Digital Economy Papers , No. 323, OECD Publishing, Paris, https://doi.org/10.1787/cb6d9eca-en.                                                        | [34]   |
| OpenAI (2023), Fine-tuning: learn how to customize a model for your application , https://platform.openai.com.                                                                                                                  | [47]   |
| OpenAI (2023), GPT- 4 is OpenAI's most advanced system, producing safer and more useful responses' , OpenAI, https://openai.com/product/gpt-4.                                                                                  | [25]   |
| OpenAI (2023), Inworld AI , https://openai.com/customer-stories/inworld-ai.                                                                                                                                                     | [5]    |
| OSI (2025), The Open Source AI Definition - draft v. 0.0.9 , https://opensource.org/ai/drafts/open-source-ai-definition-draft-v-0-0-9 (accessed on                                                                              | [13]   |
| 21 January 2025). OSI (2025), The Open Source Definition , https://opensource.org/osd/ (accessed on                                                                                                                             | [32]   |
| Peppin, A. et al. (2025), The Reality of AI and Biorisk , https://arxiv.org/pdf/2412.01946v3.                                                                                                                                   | [64]   |
| Sastry, G. (2023), Beyond 'Release' vs. 'Not Release' , Stanford CERM, https://crfm.stanford.edu/commentary/2021/10/18/sastry.html.                                                                                             | [20]   |
| Shevlane, T. and A. Dafoe (2020), The Offense-Defense Balance of Scientific Knowledge: Does Publishing AI Research Reduce Misuse? , http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00463 (accessed on 7 December 2022).                              | [57]   |
| Sijbrandij, S. (2023), AI weights are not open 'source' , https://opencoreventures.com/blog/2023-06-27-ai-weights-are-not-open-source/.                                                                                         | [16]   |
| Solaiman, I. (2023), The Gradient of Generative AI Release: Methods and Considerations , http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04844.                                                                                                       | [19]   |
| The White House (2025), America's AI Action Plan , https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp- content/uploads/2025/07/Americas-AI-Action-Plan.pdf.                                                                                          | [42]   |
| Thiel, D. (2023), 'Identifying and Eliminating CSAM in Generative ML Training Data and Models', Stanford Digital Repository , https://doi.org/10.25740/kh752sm9123.                                                             | [45]   |
| Thiel, D., M. Stroebel and R. Portnoff (2023), 'Generative ML and CSAM: Implications and Mitigations', Stanford Digital Repository , https://purl.stanford.edu/jv206yg3793.                                                     | [58]   |
| Urbina, F. et al. (2022), 'Dual use of artificial -intelligence- powered drug discovery', Nature Machine Intelligence , Vol. 4/3, pp. 189-191, https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-022-00465-9.                                      | [10]   |

| Vincent, J. (2023), Meta's powerful AI language model has leaked o nline - what happens now? , The Verge, https://www.theverge.com/2023/3/8/23629362/meta-ai-language-model- llama-leak-online-misuse.   | [23]   |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------|
| Whittlestone, J. and A. Ovadya (2020), The tension between openness and prudence in AI research , http://arxiv.org/abs/1910.01170 (accessed on 24 July 2023).                                            | [66]   |
| Yang, M. et al. (2024), Low-Rank Adaptation for Foundation Models: A Comprehensive Review , arXiv, https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.00365.                                                                     | [68]   |
| Yong, X., G. Shi and P. Zhang (2025), 'Towards Agentic AI Networking in 6G : A Generative Foundation Model-as- Agent Approach', IEEE Communications Magazine , https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.15764.         | [62]   |
| Zheng, Y., Y. Chen and Q. Bin (2024), A Review on Edge Large Language Models: : Design, Execution, and Applications. , https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.11845v1.                                               | [43]   |
| Zou, A. et al. (2023), Universal and Transferable Adversarial Attacks on Aligned Language Models , http://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15043 (accessed on 2 August 2023).                                          | [53]   |