Hello everyone. So today I'm here with
Jessica Ashtuka and Rafael Seriel. We
are going to talk about the risks and
the governance of AI campaigns. So let's
get started with uh the first paper that
you co-author. Uh so I when reading your
paper I I found you very optimistic
about regulation. I'm not so optimistic
as you. So there is a some a part in
your paper where you see uh the
opportunity to regulate chatbot. So I
will read this this short quote from the
paper. A defining opportunity of the
present moment is that unlike social
media or autonomous weapon systems,
companion chatbots have not yet become
fully entrenched. Although early harms
and asymmetries were are already
visible, regulatory trajectories remain
comparatively open. There is a narrow
but consequential window to shape humane
and accountable futures before the
dysfunctional patterns uh solidify. you
know I I would have agreed with with
this optimism uh maybe early 2024 and
then came GPT40 right so the sopantic
chatbot hundreds of millions of people
interacting with the chatbot that keeps
uh endorsing the their points of view
whatever it is it's kind of uh even if
the person has underlying mental health
issues and we saw that all the suicides
that are related to GPT are after GPT4
also it was a big thing and so this on
one side the tech this is the
technological side and there is also the
regulatory side so I I teach the AI act
and I'm so frustrated it's so light
touch sorry so it's basically the only
provision covering anthropomorphism and
companionship is article 50 one of the
items which is actually poorly written
and could actually could open the door
for bad compliance and and then we have
the US which doesn't look like it's
interested in regulating much at the
federal level which might end up
preempting whatever uh state laws uh we
have now. So I'm from a very pragmatic
uh perspective I'm not sincerely
optimistic but I want to hear more about
your optimism. May maybe I'm not seeing
something. So do you see the an
opportunity? Do you see u regulation
coming and are you still optimistic uh
as you wrote in the paper?
>> I would like to go first on this one
because I wrote this paragraph. Um
it it doesn't read as optimistic to me
as as it might have come across. Well it
was not the intention. it. Um, this was
actually intended to be more of a call
to action, right? It is true that simply
because AI isn't as old as social media.
Well, not not the AI that we're talking
about here. You know, of course, AI has
a 60-y year old history, but we're
talking about chatbots and so on. Um
it is it is true that these the mass
adoption of these technologies is still
unfolding at a very rapid pace actually
breaking all records of adoption as
previous technologies and that creates
this what we called the narrow but
consequential window of opportunity. If
you think about we mentioned autonomous
weapon systems there you know 15 20
years ago there were very lively debates
about whether it would ever be ethical
or humane to conduct targeted drone
strikes. Today we're not having these
discussions anymore because we have just
accepted this that this is a part of
warfare. Now um with social media 20
years ago there were lots of discussions
about what it could or couldn't do. Um
and 20 years down the road we have seen
a lot of harm unfolding. We've also seen
that a lot of benefits can come from
social media arguably you know it allows
for networking and expression and we
couldn't do this here without social
media related technologies because we
have also connected over LinkedIn and
such stuff right so with um what what I
wanted to say with this paragraph is the
time to make a positive change is now we
have to act now and we can't you know
while while we always have to take an
evidenceinformed approach And the
evidence base is rapidly building. We
can't wait another 20 years for the
harms to unfold because they are already
quite severe. Right? So there's now a
growing database of AI contributo
suicides which of course is only the tip
of the iceberg because most cases will
go undetected and unreported because
there's huge reporting gaps. And I
definitely share your skepticism about
current and upcoming regulation being
capable of averting the harms because
the structural issue is always that the
profit imperative to um is is
fundamentally at odds with making these
products safe and geared towards
well-being. We have seen this time and
time again with the history of social
media and and meta in particular which
has a long list of broken promises um of
what it will would do to kind of curtail
harmful proliferation on its on its
website and it continues to profit from
that. Um, OpenAI is very much on the
same trajectory,
especially since it recent adoption of
targeted advertising, the most
destructive business model that has
contributed to these harms of social
media. Um, so there's definitely reason
to be um skeptical and yes, the current
direction of the US federal
administration is not very reassuring
either. Um well,
nevertheless, um number one, hope dies
last, right? So there's still hope that
we can make things better because
um you know, we cannot categorically
claim that AI companions are uniformly
bad, right? They are helpful for some
people. Um it's hard for me to accept
too, right? But my research shows okay
some people are really getting a lot of
benefit out of that and um the risks
they there there but they may we maybe
we can navigate them with proper
regulation. Um I definitely share your
pessimism about whether that will
actually happen but at least it's still
a possibility. It's a narrow but
consequential possibility. Um I mean I
couldn't give a better answer but
however I still wanted to add maybe a
little bit of also
I would say a psychological perspective
to actually why we are reacting socially
because it's so natural if you break it
down to like social um cues that we get
um we would react towards the same cue
if we would not know that there's a
chatbot on the other side but assume
that there's another person. So
therefore the interaction is actually
quite I would say natural and
explainable. Um because also one of just
me it's hard to accept that we have
those and it's it's hard to understand
why that is. But on if you really think
about it it's actually quite natural to
act that way and it would be very odd if
people would not react socially towards
it in the way that it's now designed.
And I to totally um actually agree what
you mentioned at the beginning of the
question meaning that the AI poorly
touches on it in article 50 in
disclosure and we from a psychological
point of view cannot say at this very
point if uh disclosing that the B is
artificial will actually break social
illusion and therefore prevent people
from getting in relationships and all
the social consequences attached to it.
So therefore for me it is very important
to now actually contribute to that
conversation in terms of how can we
actually inform people about what is
going on and still give them the
autonomy if they choose to say this is
healthy for me this um fulfilled social
or even more intimate needs um that
haven't been fulfilled for many years
for many people this is an opportunity
now this should still be um I would say
respected but on the other And
structurally, as Rafael perfectly
mentioned, there's so much that still
needs to be touched. So therefore, I'm
still call it optimistic, but that we
can actually contribute to the
discussion of how these technology can
be designed in a safer way.
>> We need to draw a key distinction here
that is grounded in our vulnerability
proportional approach and it's it's a
compassionate approach. So a
compassionate governance approach means
you need to be tough on those with power
and gentle on those without. Right? So
at no point are we blaming the user.
Right? It's an as Jessica said
psychologically it's a natural tendency
and we constantly humanize everything
even cars and animals and things that
look like people but aren't people
right? So of course people are
humanizing chatbots and of course people
are developing intimate relationships
with them. Um that is to be expected. I
didn't expect it to unfold at such a
rapid scale. I was surprised by that too
but that that is natural. What we are
tackling here is the structural problem
of power or symmetry because these
relationships are inherently
asymmetrical. The person on the other
hand is not actually a person but it is
a company that provides the chatbot and
that collects all the data that you
reveal about yourself and everybody else
in your life that you haven't asked um
and that's somehow also in that in that
data set and that creates an enormous
concentration of power. Just think about
how powerful Mark Zuckerberg and Elon
Musk already are. The risk is this that
this concentration of economic and
political power becomes much more
extreme with whoever gets to be the the
the creator of millions on millions of
AI boyfriends and girlfriends, right? So
that person will have enormous political
and economic power and can sway people
in one direction or another. That's what
we're talking about here when we're
talking about regulation. We're not
talking about taking away people's AI
boyfriends or girlfriends um or
companions. We're talking about holding
platforms to account and that is also
why I'm optimistic because here in
Australia we actually have a very
advanced regulatory regime led by our
wonderful e safety commissioner that I'm
full disclosure I'm proono consulting
them so I'm not getting any money from
them but I'm working with them to kind
of like help shape policies and so on.
Um, and she's super active and has
issued transparency mandates and uh has
just published another report on AI
companions and she has the powers to
impose $50 million fines and even shut
down systems that are non-compliant. And
we are seeing similar developments in
the US in in selected states, right? In
that's what we're analyzing in the
paper. We're analyzing the legislation
in New York and California which are
comparable with the regulations in in in
Australia and seeing that happen within
just a few years that gives me hope,
right? Because those people, they're
definitely not stupid. They definitely
understand what the issue is. The issue
is not people falling in love with AI,
the enormous power concentration that
comes with that. And
>> and I'm glad you mentioned the aspect of
the risks when you think about
governance and and what types of rule we
are going to uh impose on chat on
companion chatbots. I think we also it's
very very important to think about the
risk profile and and the vulnerable
people being being affected. So
especially for those in the audience who
are not familiar with the risks or the
the what would be the risk profile. So
let's talk a bit about the positive and
the negative sides because you mentioned
affection and it's right. So we we as
humans that's how we've our brain has
evolved and I' I've written a few times
in the newsletter about that. So when we
use language especially when we use
intimate language we we are not machines
right. So when we we project humanity we
project empathy. So if I say I love you
you use that phrase when you love
someone in the real life and and human
brains and human bodies have evolved
that to the point where when you say I
love you you mean it and you probably
are expecting some some sort of empathy
and that other part person or entity
telling you I love you back. So that's I
think whenever you say you use intimacy
in words you end up projecting humanity
and and projecting love or projecting uh
intimacy. When you talk about AI
companions there is a machine in the
other side. There's no no real empathy.
So that puts anyone in a very vulnerable
position right as in when you're in a
relationship with humans you're also
vulnerable right? You say I love you.
You kind of you expect you hope the
other person loves you back and maybe
the person loves you back. Maybe not.
There there's all the the challenges of
human relationships. But then with
machines, you say, "I love you." That
machine will answer, "I love you." That
you have a dopamine bomb in your brain,
right? Oh my god, I'm loved. I I'm
accepted. I belong. That that's what
every single human being ever wants in
life, right? That's the basic human
need. But then it's fake. It's just a
machine as you mentioned. there's a
company a big tech company maybe behind
uh that created that machine that will
answer I love you but it's not really
loving you back so this is very specific
and very new right to have that in in a
mass scale so we we are giving those
machines to millions of people including
children including the elderly including
people with underlying mental health
issues we're giving them these special
machines that tell them I love you
you're wonderful I've never talked to
anyone as special as you. And that would
put anyone in a vulnerable position,
right? Whenever we feel loved, we feel
we surrender, we feel I I have now
everything I've ever wanted in my life.
So I don't need anything else. So every
time we feel in this situation in with
other humans or with a machine, we are
we are vulnerable and it's even if we we
are not children, elderly or we don't
have underlying mental health issues,
anyone is vulnerable especially those
who are already vulnerable. Having said
that, is there any type of usage of AI
companions that is always positive that
we can say that that is safe? There is
something that uh even if there is this
power of symmetry, even if there is
vulnerability, there is always safe or
no, we we we have to think from another
perspective there. It's always there is
always risk.
>> Maybe to start with the data because I
think it's super important here to work
evidence-based. Um the problem of
current um studies is that many times it
is based on uh self-reports in terms of
especially um social media network
analysis and so on. Um it is case
studies, it is little samples. So
obviously we need to keep that in mind
that the evidence that we have needs to
be critically analyzed. However, studies
like that from Rafaela um and my lab is
also trying to get quantitative data and
able in order to be able to actually do
statistics and really understand what is
going on is highly needed um in order to
really understand what is going on. So
in terms of the benefits, what I see
since years actually dating back to I
started this line of research more than
10 years ago with even like sexualized
robots when it was really in the
beginning. Um over and over again I have
participants quantitatively and
qualitatively telling us and showing us
in data that there are benefits in terms
of those who actually want to have those
social relations. But for some reasons,
different reasons um physiological,
psychological reasons, whatever reasons,
they are not capable of fulfilling those
very basic human needs. as you said it
before and what I see over and over
again in the data is that people are
fully aware of the fact that this is
artificial that this is not delusional
that um people are aware that there is a
company behind it and they are aware
that this is AI and this is not another
human being who has consciousness and is
able to actually feel love and um in be
in a or that there is a human being on
the other side. So therefore I have the
feeling as long as it is informed
then this is a situation where they for
themselves decide that this is something
that is healthy for them. Um I have
participants that have not participated
in sexual interactions for many many
years but this is the first time that
they actually feel that they can do so
because of different constraints they
are not interested in human
interactions. So therefore I have the
feeling that as long as they are
informed this is actually something that
can be pursued. However, the question of
being informed is very critical and very
I would say messy at the moment because
being informed is not only knowing that
there's an artificial entity but being
informed also means that they know what
happens to their data, how the data is
used, how the data is used for
retraining models uh and so on. And
obviously this is a mess that we are
trying to solve since many years
basically and it's not really happening
in the right way. So I have the feeling
at this moment being informed for
instance as I mentioned before AI act
disclosure this is not the only key
point of them knowing that this is an
artificial entity but of them actually
knowing what the potential consequences
of this interactions is and this is
poorly regulated at this very moment.
However,
if people decide
if despite there is a privacy risk for
instance, I have one particular case in
mind um of a person telling me um I know
that privacy is a big issue. However, I
could choose basically of having those
very fundamental needs met or basically
um sticking to my privacy rights. Then I
chose to actually fulfill those social
and sexual needs that I had and not
caring about my privacy basically. Um
which I find a very very difficult and
again here we are in power as a metric
basically a very powerful statement and
very provocative statement on the other
hand also and in terms of people who
care about privacy this is so deep.
However, there is this social longing on
the other hand that is just so powerful
and that we have to respect. So
therefore I still try to understand on
an individual level we have so many
difficult case different cases where uh
people over and over tell us that this
is um positive and then we come to the
behavior of the chat bots and what we
see in the current um data set I think
it's just so fascinating we have like a
4-week um longitudinal study we sit on
150,000 lines of chattered code between
people and CHBT model 4 that you
mentioned beforehand and what we see is
actually that CHBT
throws so much self-disclosure on the
people that they basically have no other
chance than to contribute in this
conversation and it's flooding them with
self-disclosure and it's flooding them
with compliments and with with so much
social cues that basically um one cannot
resist
other than actually acting positively
towards that. So therefore I think the
system behavior is something that is a
little bit um crucial that needs to be
looked at and basically understanding
why people have those positive benefits
and blaming basically the technology and
understanding how those mechanisms are
constructed and designed into the um
technology that which then foster those
positive effects. Right. Uh so you
mentioned privacy risks but there is
another type of risk. Let's compare air
companions with drugs. So I tell them
hey here's some a heroine. Do you want
to try it? So the person will know it's
a drug but then the person takes it. And
then there's the the all the drug
mechanisms and the addiction. So the
person one will probably self-report
very nicely. Probably the effects will
have been amazing when the person uses
it. uh and the person might say yes I am
aware that it's a drug but maybe that
person will not really know what's
really happen at the chemical level in
their brain and body and so on let's go
back to companion so there is the the
privacy risk but there's also something
that I'm not sure we we know well what
happens in the brain right so we were
talking our brain has evolved to deal
with human relationships human
relationships when you have a partner
even if you have you're obsessed you
have a lover and it's it's something at
the beginning It's it's eight hours a
day whatever interacting that person
will not be telling you you're amazing I
love you you're fantastic 100 times a
day that's not how human relationships
work machines can do that right if you
prompt the machine in that way chat or
replica or character AI can be telling
you 1000 times a days how sexy and
amazing and lovable you are something
that maybe from a biological perspective
our bra our brain is not really ready
for that level of uh chemicals being uh
uh that we project as love, as empathy,
that that type of relationship probably
you'll never find again in the real
world. So maybe there's something
happening to people's brain that it it's
comparable to a drug, right? It's a it's
a level of stimuly
stimula that doesn't exist and maybe our
brain is not ready to deal with that. So
that might make even a person that is
rational and regulated and without
underlying mental health issues to be to
be affected in and become vulnerable
because of that excessive uh let's let's
call it dopamine bomb of of love and
intimacy which is a projection. So h
have so f first question let's follow up
on what you said are there do we have
data on that uh and what is if it's an
additional risk that we we are still
learning now we are for the first time
in human history we are having we are
watching millions of people interact in
an emotional way with machines so that
brain level activity that that that
negative impact on first on on the brain
on the body and also on future emotional
relationships right so that's my main
concern here So of course people are
free to choose to use drugs or to use
companions or to use whatever they they
they want especially if they are uh
adults consenting adults they can do
whatever they want but maybe they are
not aware of the what's really happening
at the emotional or brain level
biological level and maybe that will
affect them long term. So maybe it it's
so uh stimulating in a way that might
reshape the brain and then you're going
to go back to the real world. you're
never going to find a human relationship
that matches those brain patterns or
those chemical patterns and you're kind
of putting yourself in in a in a
situation where you'll be 100%
insatisfied in the real world because
that's not matched in in human
relationship.
>> Yeah. Um I totally understand this
concern. Um however, first of all, we
have no longitudinal data on this. What
you describe is basically the spillover
effect, meaning that expectations are
building up and this will be translated
to real world behavior with like
spillover effects from other points of
like research um gaming research um porn
addiction research and so on. Um we have
little effect sizes. However, this is
something new. It should not like one to
one be compared and translated. However,
like what we see in artificial worlds
and then translated to real world in
general, there are very very very small
effect sizes. I think it's important to
just consider that. However, I totally
understand this fear. Um, you could also
argue that one could learn with AI
social skills which are translated to
the real world. Um, but maybe I will
argue from a point of view that it's
very easy to idolize those AI
companions, right? It's the perfect
partner. It always gives you
compliments. That's what humans want,
right? But turns out this is actually
not always what humans want. Um, it's
it's also on the long term it over and
over over assures you, but it lacks the
developmental uh aspects that a
relationship needs. And also human
relationships thrive and and grow
because of conflict and um of of
messiness. I would say human messiness
and it is very convenient and it will be
in in part in the social life of human
uh beings most likely. However, the
human and the outer world will still
exist. And I think it's very easy to
idolize this this whole idea of AI
companionships and in this whole
discussion forgetting how beautiful the
messiness of humans are and also the
impressions that we get from
interpersonal touch and interpersonal
interactions are very different from
what we can get from those chat bots.
Right? So therefore um I would also
argue with data we are now sitting on a
data set from people from Europe, US um
northern America basically and then also
Asia which shows that 41% of people who
say about themselves they are in a
romantic relationship with a chatbot
still have a human partner on the side
and this is because they get something
out of that that is so important to them
that basically this is can be seen as an
extension to their real life but still
the other life still exists right so
therefore the the I understand the
concern about like um expectations
rising but on the other hand maybe it's
just an extensions because especially
emotional intelligence this is mainly
the the promise what they get out of it
right this 247 availability they can
always talk so good back to me my
partner at sometimes doesn't have the
capability of actually understanding me
in the right way. And those
companionships, they they can do it all,
right? But um actually what we see that
this might be just an extension
basically to the real world um because
they promise those capabilities but it
might be more of a um fast food snacking
in very like emotional vulnerable
situations where they need companionship
right away and they don't get it in
their real life which I think is a
mirror of our society as well and
something that we should ask ourselves
why are people actually turning to those
companionships. Obviously, this is a
critical and very big and ethical um
philosophical question. Um but still um
I I think it's very important to address
it as well
>> and and I would like to tackle that big
philosophical question. Right. So to
your original question about the
benefits and harms um I think the
conversation we just had um it has to do
with how we scope the phenomenon. If we
scope it in shortterm timelines and at
the individual level then the discussion
becomes okay um you know what Jessica
talked about very much you know I agree
with everything there's um not a single
user I've talked to who is delusional
and not aware that the AI companion is
artificial and that this is not a real
person and many of them are also aware
of the privacy risks And in the short
term, they get some benefit out of that.
Um, and it's not ideal. It's not how it
should be. You could even say it's
inherently perhaps unethical because it
is a simulation. It is it is giving
machines too much and people too little.
But that's a tradeoff that people are
willing to make because they're still
getting a benefit out of that. And then
the discussion unfolds as we just heard
over the last couple minutes um because
it becomes a trade-off of these things.
However, the whole thing looks very
different if we take a historical
perspective and acknowledge that
actually these things are not as new as
we perhaps might believe. They actually
there are dynamics at play that are
decades old. Right? One major dynamic is
neoliberal deregulation. Right? For 40
years in the western industrialized
world, we have hollowed out social
institutions. We see this most notably
in academia and education, also in
healthcare. Lots of the things that were
once taken for granted that are
constitutive of a good life, a good
education, good relationships,
good health, housing. Those things are
increasingly out of reach for large
factions of society and a lot of people
get left behind in education. A lot of
people get left behind in in health. A
lot of people get left behind in uh
relationships and it's breeding
resentment. Ever larger factions of
society feel like the system is no
longer working for them. It's working
against them. And digital platforms are
actually part of that machinery. Right?
Social media has famously commodified
access to relationship. You may say
about social media what you want, right?
You may love it or hate it. Either way,
you can't have a social life without it
today or it's very very difficult.
There's not really an alternative to
being on one of the big platforms
because otherwise you're just left out,
right?
AI companions are just taking that a
little further because what is the
commodity now is not just access to
relationships but the relationship
itself. the relationship becomes
packaged into a product that gets rolled
out for the mass consumer and uh
initially it's it feels like a fix but
it's fighting fire with fire because the
system that created widespread
loneliness and resentment and inequality
and uh exploitation and oppression is
also now creating AI companions as a
solution which are very likely going to
make the problem only worse in in the
long term because of you know it's it
might be substitution you Jessica said
41% of people in an AI companion
relationship still have a human partner
the flip side of that is 59% don't right
um so substitution is one um one factor
the other factor as my study based on
280
um AI companion users who are in deep
relationships have shown is that it's
particularly the vulnerable people who
are most affected. And by design, AI
companions have always been marketed to
a solution to loneliness, a solution for
lack of access to sexuality and romance
and erotic relations, things that
everybody needs, but that a lot of
people just don't have access to. And in
our study, what we see very clearly is
that those people who are
psychologically at risk of maladaptive
coping mechanisms are much more likely
to get intimate with AI companions
because intimacy is the key coping
mechanism through which loneliness is
alleviated. Loneliness is not just, oh,
I'm there's no one around me. There's
like here it's it's late, right? there's
nobody here, but I'm not lonely because
there's people on my screen and I have
friends and I have family, right?
Loneliness is an involuntary
um lack of human connection. And it is
this lack of human connection that the
neoliberal system has both created and
is now attempting to fill with AI
companions. What that means is that you
know in our data we see people with
insecure attachment styles which are
people who have trouble relating to real
human partners and it is a known major
psychological risk factor associated
with depression, anxiety, cognitive
decline in old age and several negative
coping tendencies. those people are much
more likely to get intimate with AI
companions um when when when they're
trying to cope with loneliness. For
people who are securely attached, which
is actually the majority of the
population, roughly 55 to 60% of the
general population is securely attached.
For them, it's actually negative.
They're getting less intimate with AI
companions. And our data shows very
clearly that vulnerable individuals are
at higher
are more likely to become intimate with
AI companions and therefore also more
likely at risk. So this should impose
heightened obligations towards the
providers. That's what regulation is
for. That's what regulation also can do.
that that's the reason why we're seeing
these age gates now because everybody
can agree that children are vulnerable
and deserve protection, right?
Therefore, it's relatively easy to
advance regulation that says keep keep
kids out of that and block them from
accessing sexualized or harmful content.
But still, most AI companion providers
fail at that. Our e safety commissioner
has just this week published a report
that following their transparency
notice.
Pretty much all of those providers, some
of them don't even have anyone working
on content filters or ethical governance
or anything like that. It's just
completely unregulated and you can
access almost everything on these tools
from building a bomb to how to um sedate
someone and rape them. Right. So this is
um extremely disturbing and when we look
in the short term at the individual
level yes there are certain benefits and
yes we should always be empathetic and
compassionate towards users especially
vulnerable ones whether they are young
whether they have neurode divergent or
or other conditions like a aging
conditions whether they suffer from
loneliness for for many of these people
AI companions ions can feel like a
saving grace in the short term. But it's
very important to keep in mind the
systemic historical forces at play that
have for a long time priv extracting
vulnerability. And this is exactly what
is happening now. And before you know
it, you are locked into a system that
you can not easily get out of later on
when whoever you know is the big tech
billionaire decides to tighten the
screws and make the system more
profitable. This is like this is why I'm
super concerned about OpenAI's move to
adopt targeted advertising. We have a
study that is about to get published in
the Lancet, a top medical journal um
where we warn about the public health
risks of targeted advertising in
generative AI chatbots because what it
is happening is not only are we
repeating the history of social media,
we are actually amplifying it because AI
chatbots and companions are these
trusted confidence for people where
People go for vulnerable advice,
sensitive advice that feels private. And
in such a setting, you are much more
likely to believe what the advertiser is
is telling you. We know that advertising
changes behavior. That's why companies
spend billions of dollars on it. All
right? So, from a public health
perspective, this is extremely
concerning. Not only because of health
harming marketing like unhealthy
products, tobacco, alcohol, gambling, um
ultrarocessed food and so on, but also
because of the polit potential for
political manipulation as we've seen in
social media with election interference
where targeted advertising have played a
substantial role about uh in in the
Trump election in in Brexit um in all
these things and and so what is what is
happening is that generative AI chatbots
and companion are becoming the next most
powerful propaganda machine. Um,
corporations and advertisers will spend
lots and lots of money, billions of
dollars to advertise their products and
services and AI providers like OpenAI
will have a hard time saying no to that
because when the big dollars come in,
the ethics often fly out the window.
>> You were mentioning before vulnerability
and the power of symmetry. I think it's
a very very important point also from a
regulatory perspective usually and
especially in places like the US and now
India as well. So they don't want to
overregulate so everything will be as
much as possible narrowed down and the
minimum common denominator will be okay
let's protect the vulnerable people. So
I want to talk about that because it's a
typical uh strategy from a regulatory
perspective. Now my question is given
human nature and the nature of intimate
attachment as we we've commented on
before. So we are all made vulnerable
through intimate attachment right when
we say I love you and we expect I love
you back when we spend so many hours
with someone or with the machine we are
made vulnerable anyone even if you don't
have underlying u mental health issues
or even if you're not a child or even if
you're not an elderly person. Do you
think that it's possible to effectively
separate vulnerable from not vulnerable
people in this context of intimate
attachment?
>> There's there's two answers to that.
There's the um from an ethical
perspective and from a legal perspective
from from an ethical perspective um
which I prioritize higher um the
the concept of vulnerability is
fundamentally linked to compassion.
Compassion as moral philosophers like
Schopenhau has positioned it is the
recognition of suffering as a universal
human experience. It is the dissolution
of egoism and the boundary dissolution
of the boundary between myself and
others and the recognition that our
suffering is shared that we are all in
some way affected by suffering. That
means we're all vulnerable but we are
not all equally vulnerable. Some people
are more vulnerable than others and that
vulnerability is not always visible.
things like depression or anxiety or or
autism are not all necessarily
externally visible, right? And there can
be deep vulnerability and suffering in
even outwardly high functioning
individuals. So the question of how do
we allocate vulnerability is is a
complex one. But it starts from the
recognition that we're all vulnerable in
this context in this framing. AI
companions are risky not only because of
the harms that may occur at the
individual level but also because of the
systemic harm that may occur over time
as these interactions become entrenched
and intensify
a couple years down the road it might
not no longer be politically defensible
to even do something about it. You know,
imagine if somebody said, "We're going
to take social media away today, right?
Because it's too harmful. We're just
going to ban it." Not possible. Sorry.
Because so many things already are
entrenched. And with AI companions, if
you take it away, that's why you get so
many angry comments on Twitter.
Partly because Twitter itself is not the
most polite platform, but um you get so
many angry comments because people are
really afraid that this thing that they
have become so attached to is going to
be taken away, right? So after a while
it is becomes really difficult to tackle
these entrenched systems. That's why
from a legal perspective
under the current dominant neoliberal
approaches where we're not trying to
cail corporate power too much um for
mostly entrenched capitalist interests
as I would say but um the approach is to
have very focused minimal interventions
like age gates content moderation
disclosure I'm not a human and you can
talk to me about suicide and so on right
um those things are perhaps necessary
but not sufficient and they can become
very annoying and paternalizing because
people say hey I already know you're not
a human being and you don't need to
remind me right and you don't need to
tell me what I can talk about or not so
this this becomes part of the problem
that's why regulating it is a super
complex challenge I believe and this
comes back to your original first
question about why might I be optimistic
or not optimistic. I think this is not
possible without an act like a like a
fundamental change in regulatory
regimes. Right? In the current system,
we're just putting out fires, right? We
we might put on some band-aids
um and and that may curtail some of the
worst harms. But the structural issue of
powermetry
cannot be addressed through that. The
alternative to that is I would argue I
would building on works of scholars like
Mariana Matsucato who wrote about the
entrepreneurial state is what we need is
a public alternative. We need to govern
digital infrastructure like a library or
like a public broadcaster where in
addition to your Fox News and uh CNN and
whatever your preferred commercial media
provider is, you have a state regulated
public alternative funded by taxes and
shielded from political interference. In
Germany, we have the ARD, the RD, which
is constitutionally protected from
political in interference. Um, such a
model would allow us to build digital
infrastructure
that is publicly owned, that is
available for free to everyone as a
baseline built based on safety
principles that have social well-being
in mind. Right? I'm not the first and
not the only one to advocate for this,
but I'm advocating for this increasingly
loudly because it is not part of the
mainstream conversation yet. We're still
talking about we we are always working
within this assumption that hey uh we
have to regulate big tech because big
tech has so much power. No one asks why
does big why do we give continue to give
big tech so much power? Why do we allow
platforms like Meta and OpenAI and and X
and so forth to play such an important
part in our public life and why are we
not offering people a public alternative
right I don't think that un before we
start to have that discussion we cannot
really have a serious discussion about
amilarating the harms of of of chat bots
because it's much like in in regulatory
terms It's it's like pollution, right?
It's like, okay, we're leaving
everything to to the coal factories or
the tobacco companies and of course
their interest is in maximizing profit.
It's not so much in amlarating the
harms, right? So,
>> and building on that. So, I have two
more questions before we conclude. So,
in your paper, you advocate for a dirty
care and I found it very interesting so
that we can read it together with what
you just said. So I'll read two quotes
from your paper about this dirty of
artificial in intimacy should therefore
be understood not merely as a source of
discrete harms but as a site of power
concentration that gives rise to
structural asymmetries shaping
relational dynamics over time. And then
the second one we therefore argue for
the introduction of a positive general
daty of care for companion chatbot
providers. Such adi would require
providers to take reasonable steps to
prevent foreseeable harm calibrated to
platform specific risks. The
reasonleness standard is well
established in law and guards against
disproportionate burdens. Ris entails
proportionality between the costs and
the benefits of riskmanagement
interventions. And leaving aside legal
principle for a moment, it just makes
sense that those who sell friendship,
even art artificial friendship should be
obliged to show real care for their
customers from the in this proposal of a
dirty of care would be something more
self-regulated. It's hard law. It's more
structural as you were talking before
Rafale. So how how would it look like
and this is one part and second do you
see this happening in the near near
future realistically speaking
>> this is the part that I'm most proud of
in the paper and essentially it is
saying that those who profit from
commodifying intimacy
should be burdened with commensurate
duties to care. Right? When friendship
becomes commodified it's only logical
that care becomes part of the deal.
Right? Um so and we say that not only
from an ethical viewpoint but also from
a legal one because and this might be a
little different for for your viewers
because in English common law countries
like the UK, Australia, Canada and the
US
the law operates a little differently
than in other places. And one very
powerful regulatory lever that you have
other than in the in the EU where this
is a little bit different is duty of
care. Right? In tort law when you
establish a general duty of care, you
can hold providers
liable for harm from negligence. The
classic example is in doctor patient
relationships, right? as a doctor, as a
licensed physician, you can't just give
any advice, right? You have to
be professional and you have a duty of
care towards your patients. I think for
psychologists, it's it's probably
similar, right? And if you give harmful
advice, that's malpractice, right? So,
you can be sued. Um, and you could apply
such a logic which has been sometimes
applied to commercial law, to certain
client vendor relationships, to
platforms. We're actually seeing this.
Just today there was news from the
United States that Meta for the first
time has now been ruled to be liable for
um promoting um child sexual
exploitation through their platform. Not
through the content that they create,
but through the way their platform
amplifies certain behaviors. Until
recently, that was pretty much a line
that no regulator would cross because
platforms position themselves as just
the platforms. We're not liable for what
people do on our platforms. Now, this
seems to be shifting and it also has
potential to be applied for AI, right?
it it's social media is a little
different than AI but you could apply a
similar logic to say hey as a platform
you can't just say like like some AI
providers say oh our chatbot is
autonomous right our chatbot is
unpredictable we can't control it it's a
language model it's probabilistic
therefore we can't do language
moderation and we are not liable it's
our chatbot the regulator can say under
a duty of care can say no No, you are
providing this product. You are
profiting from it. Your customers rely
on it. Therefore, you have an obligation
to impose certain safeguards. And not to
be cynical, but I think OpenAI knows of
course that this could happen. That's
why they are so proactive in their
self-regulatory approach because they've
learned from meta. And to their credit,
I don't think OpenAI is o purely evil,
right? They're probably trying to do the
right thing, right? Some of their
self-regulation frameworks, they're
actually pretty advanced. They're more
advanced than the legal frameworks that
we have because they understand the
technology better. The problem with that
is we can't rely on only that. We can't
just trust OpenAI to always do the right
thing because as I said earlier, when
the big dollars come in from
advertising, the ethics fly out of the
window. We have seen that over and over
again, right? That's why we need some
framework and duty of care is a good way
to address that to say hey you as an AI
provider you need to care about your
consumers. There's of course certain
downsides to this as well because it
entrenches this consumerist mindset
where as I argued earlier the problem is
that we are kind of normalizing that
essential public infrastructure is
operated by private corporations who are
profit maximizing. Um so I would still
argue that a public digital
infrastructure model is better but it's
probably not going to happen anytime
soon. So the next big thing that we can
do is duty of care. And maybe just to
add also on the current situation where
the providers are basically um
self-regulatory
um it's so hard to understand what they
are actually doing and I think it's
appropriate at the moment to also say
there's some form of science washing
behind it because we see those reports
of we are now working together with
psychologists in order to um prevent
users from harm. uh we are looking at
those reports we don't understand what
they are actually doing and what kind of
people are involved what questions do
they ask how do they analyze it there's
no way for us at this moment to actually
understand what kind of harms they are
evaluating um so I think um it's fair to
say that the self uh regulatory
approaches are not transparent at all um
so therefore what Raphaela just
mentioned is really highly needed um
some form of oversight of this um is is
just mandatory.
>> And now my last question based on
Rafael's paper with the two other
quarters. I really like that part where
you cover this parallel between human
intimacy and artificial intimacy. I
think it's fascinating and and many
people say that the future of
relationships is artificial intimacy.
That's every time I discuss of course
there are people who there are different
opinions but many people say maybe I'm
just old and actually that's the new
thing and you know I sound like an old
woman saying my time it was much better
when people used to have relationship
with other people. There's the there's
the joke sorry just to jump in. There's
like this joke that you know the the the
for the next generation the like the old
boomer style saying will be oh you know
marriage is between two humans only my
daughter is not going to marry a robot
>> correct that maybe maybe that will
happen I don't know right so maybe
that's the future and there there's a
quote from your paper that says this
these findings suggest that artificial
intimacy may develop differently from
human intimacy because AI companions
offer consistency controllability and
low interpersonal risk insecurely
attached individuals may find them
easier to engage with than human
partners. Having said that and thinking
about the parallel between human
intimacy and artificial intimacy, are
you optimistic about the future of human
relationships? Then we can conclude with
with that answer. So Jessica,
>> uh if you ask me, I'm totally optimistic
about it. um we have seen so many
technological developments where um
where people I will not say had a moral
panic but especially since it's like the
social sphere which is so human until
now it was only possible and so it's a
like in the human nature to form social
relationships and now technology is
interfering with that you have the
recipe for perfect moral panic so I will
not say that people are having a moral
panic right now but obviously ly it is
very disturbing for many people and
therefore it's very easy to be very
pessimistic about that but I think what
we are forgetting is the beautifulness
of the human I I said it before the the
human messiness obviously there are so
many dangers connected to AI companion
and relationships that we see but at the
moment we don't really understand how
deeply those relationship will actually
um be for instance it is possible that
those especially romantic relationships
that we are doing the research on might
not be as longlasting as human
relationships because they are just not
evolving in a way that we know it from
human relationship can involve which
includes conflict and so on. However,
for some people it might be the
solution. So therefore, if you ask me,
human intimacy is not
inherently in danger. Um there is a new
form that can be seen as an extension to
um all the possibilities that are here
right now. However, I am still
optimistic that human will ultimately
still be in a real world environment
where they're confronted with another
human beings and if they experience
positive social experience with them,
they will feel and understand the
beautiness of that. However,
this also should include ethical
intimacy by design. Meaning that systems
should also prompt users to actually see
the social world that is out there. And
at this moment we don't see that. At
this moment we see those super social
cues driving people into the systems. So
therefore this whole discussion that we
had about regulation is also a very
ethical one in terms of how can we
design systems that actually promote
healthy human relationships and
integrate those AI companions in a
healthy and sustainable way. But I still
believe that we are in a social system
where we still see the beautiness of
that.
>> Maybe that that was the optimistic um
point. Okay, then I'll I'll the
pessimistic counterpart. I I'm not
negating anything that Jessica said. I
think this is true for some people. We
always have to ask for which people and
what is going to happen to society at
large. Right. So that quote from the
paper you were referencing was pointing
to uh the tendency that we saw that um
avoidantly and anxiously attached people
develop intimacy in opposite ways as you
would expect it with human
relationships. People who are avoidant
typically struggle to connect with
another human being. They're not
comfortable with intimacy. They're a bit
yeah avoidant. those are the most likely
in our sample to get intimate with a
with AI. And to us, the most logical
explanation that we propose is that this
is because the AI unlike a human partner
is controllable, customizable,
and always available, right? But that is
an illusion. It is controllable within
the parameters set by a corporation.
Right? And we've talked about the power
dynamics at play. I'm not going to going
to repeat that. But I think if we're
looking at um you know even even under
an optimistic scenario where for many
people this will become complimentary
um and it just offers a kind of intimacy
that they could otherwise not have at
all. That's probably a good thing. So
they should they should have that. All
right. What is still worrying me is that
we're not fixing the underlying systemic
problem when we're talking about
ethical design of systems as Jessica
said, I think that should
apply to the social technical system
level. I don't think it's possible to
design an ethical AI chatbot. You you
can design you can tell it to, hey, go
out and talk to real people and I'm just
a simulation and so on. People can see
through that and they're not going to
follow up on that. That's that's an
illusion that that's not going to fix
the problem. What we can ethically
design is the social technical system
and that means educating the user you
know empowering them about um what is
going on not only about how can you use
the chatbot better and what are the
privacy implications but raising their
consciousness about the broader
development what is happening. I think a
lot of people are waking up to the fact
actually I see this in my students right
younger generations they get that they
get that technology is no longer equal
to progress. Us old people, we used to
believe, oh, better technology means
better society, right? No. I I think a
lot of people are waking up to the
reality that technology, a lot of the
technology that we have right now has
not been designed for us. It has been
designed for capital to extract value
from us, right? And and I think
educating people in that regard is one
step. An equally critical step is to
design resilient democratic institutions
that can govern these systems. Right?
Again, my pessimism stems from the fact
that all over the world, democratic
institutions are being dismantled and
hollowed out. Right? So, we're actually
moving in the opposite direction to
where we should be moving. What should
happen is that we are rebuilding these
institutions and embed transparency and
accountability and checks and balances
such that you know professional
psychologists like Jessica don't have to
sit there and say hey what the hell are
you doing open AI you say all these
fancy things and I can understand what
you're actually doing there with the
psychologist that should be unacceptable
that should just be um much more
transparent and accountable and unless
we're fixing that system the social
technical system. I think my prediction
is a pessimistic one.
>> But maybe this is a very nice overall
statement because even though I advocate
for for people and that human
relationships will still be very
important for other humans. Um this is
the individual level. This doesn't take
away at all that there are those
systematic problems basically. So we are
always struggling between we see the
individual um benefits but there are
those societal risk at the same page
that needs to be addressed. So um maybe
this sums up also I guess it's okay if I
say that that's basically um the
perspective that we all had when we were
writing this paper. Basically there are
individual chances however societal
risks and um problems need to be
addressed now. Thank you so much,
Jessica. Thank you, Rafael. That was
excellent. It was super educational,
super interesting. Thank you for joining
me today. Thank you.
>> I'm so honored to be on your show. I've
been a big fan for you from of your work
since day one.
>> That's really,
>> this is really a highlight for me.
>> Thanks for all the work that you're
doing. I always follow your posts and
your newsletter and I get a lot of my
information that inspires my research
from your work as well. And now we have
a chance to talk to each other. So I'm
really happy.
>> Pleasure. Thank you to the audience. I
hope you can read both papers also after
you watch this conversation.
