Hello everyone. So today I'm here with
Professor Woodro Hock and Professor
Jessica Silbe. We are going to talk
about how AI destroy institutions. So
I'm super excited to have you here
today. Welcome Woody and welcome
Jessica. Their paper is going viral. So
how AI destroys institutions. You should
I hope you had time to read it before
our session. If not so you can watch
first listen to our discussion and then
please read the paper. I think over
30,000 people have already downloaded it
is it correct? Would you this is the
number
>> maybe approximately?
>> Yeah, it's close to that I think.
>> Okay. Almost. So if for those who like
numbers so if that's an additional
reason uh to read it so let's start with
what what's the the the story behind the
paper. So why did you decide to write
this paper together? So why and and why
now?
>> This is usually Woody's answer.
>> Sure. Sure. I'm happy to go. So, um,
this paper actually was intended to be a
short 30,000word sequel to a paper that
Jessica and I wrote a few years ago
called The Upside of Deep Fakes for the
Maryland Law Review Symposium on deep
fakes. And in that short little paper as
well, we made the argument that defakes
present all sorts of problems but also
opportunities to fixitutions
which can then better inoculate us to
the harms of defakes more broadly.
Right? So if if we improve journalism
and higher education and the rule of
law, then we'll be more resistant to the
harms of defects. And that was the sort
of argument we made. And we wanted to
then basically update that article for
uh for AI, both generative AI and I
think sort of predictive AI and and uh
uh more broadly.
So we started writing this sort of
3,000word provocation. And the more we
dug into it, the more we realized the
really dangerous
ways in which
our current AI systems
degraded
our institutions and and the the
progressive toll that it it was exacting
upon them. And so we actually the paper
then changed significantly as we wrote
it um to be more of a a meditation on
the ways in which the design of these
tools just exacts this this poisonous
almost cancerous toll on these
institutions over and over. And so we
tried then to have this paper be a way
in which we could either diagnose a lot
of what I think people are feeling as
sort of background anxiety or maybe the
sort of background
um uh worries about AI that sort of
sinking pit in your stomach about what's
happening now. And we wanted to give
people a way to to talk about that. And
and so that was the goal of this paper
is to lay out these um dangerous
characteristics
of the these current AI tools and the
way in which those characteristics lead
to really harmful um tolls on our
incredibly valuable institutions like
rule of law, higher education,
journalism and and our civic life.
>> And and Jessica, maybe you want to so
why now and why do you think it
resonated so much now? Is there
something particular about 2026 that
maybe it's a bit so we are already three
years in the journey over three years in
the journey of AI wave. So is there
something specific about now that made
it so popular? Well, I don't I don't I
don't know if if we had written this a
year ago, it would have also still gone
viral. But um I I do think there's a
sense in the um in culture right now
about acceleration and um l uh we're
running out of time for certain things.
For example, um the more the technology
is concentrated in few hands, I think
the less people feel like we have
control over how it's deployed, for
example. And so I think there's a sense
of urgency. people are experiencing. I
mean, it it's it's getting hard to um
avoid having to deal with the AI tools,
whether it's like shows up in your email
every time you start a new email or it
shows up in your search, every time you
start a new search or you go to a new
meeting and they're talking about like
how can we use these? It just feels like
it's in the air we're breathing. And so
I I think there's a sense in which
people feel like yeah, we need a better
way of understanding what's happening.
>> And it's funny that you mentioned
acceleration. And I saw a post today, I
think it was on Twitter, someone saying
that just last week various heads or or
in the past few weeks the the head of AI
safety and X AI left and the the one
head of AI safety and entropic left and
and and I don't know for some people are
saying of course speculation AGI maybe
something is going on the same at the
same week that they saw something that
the model claude didn't realize it was
being tested and then behaved in a
different way. So more people I saw some
people kind of resonate in that argument
of something is going on this month that
people are quitting maybe it got to
accelerate. So it's interesting.
>> Yeah. The molt book open claw um
>> thing also I I I mean there are there
are incidents that are happening that I
think that are making people feel
worried like it's gotten out of control.
Yeah.
>> Interesting that you mentioned that. Um
in general what do you think? So this is
maybe I'm very pro and as a someone with
a legal background. I'm not a legal
scholar like you but I have also PhD in
law. So I I feel more or less like a
scholar. And what do you think is the
role of legal scholars in in the debate
about AI governance? So I'm of course
I'm pro it and I love to discuss it but
many people say well it should be left
to people who can develop AI. So you got
your legal guys, you're trying to
interfere too much. It's not everything
about law and coercion. Maybe it's up to
the technical guys. So how how do you
what do you think is the
>> I'll start and then I'll turn to Woody
because Woody's the common law scholar
among us. He's the person who thinks
about slow development and how law
maintains allows for change and
maintains for stability. At the same
time, I'm the constitutional scholar and
come from also an interdisiplinary
background. I'll just say like the idea
of like how law works is a more
complicated idea. It's not just command
from the top and make a new rule and
change things. It also comes from below.
We have have to like how legal scholars
think about um the role of the public
good in the application of rules from in
local rules like at the state level or
in a town versus um supreme rules like a
constitution or a federal mandate. Like
lawyers think a lot and legal scholars a
lot about those those different
mechanisms of social ordering. And so as
we think about what are the levers to
maximize public benefits and public good
in society, how have different ones
worked differently in different contexts
in the past? We're both historians of
law and and change as well as we have a
whole toolbox of how to think about the
relationship between human organization
and different kinds of rules in society.
So I wouldn't think about law as a form
of command and control. I would think
about it as a way of how we think about
agreeing to o to abide by certain rules
in society um that come from different
places and so I think the toolbox of
legal scholarship is very varied that
way and so it creates a lot of
opportunities.
>> Agree 100%. You want to add something
with
>> Yeah. And I would just like to add I
agree with all that and I would just
like to add that I think that it's worth
sussing out the difference between the
role of legal scholars in this debate
and what the role of law should be like
sort of what role should law have. The
the role of legal scholarship I think
that that law and technology scholars in
particular have a really important role
to play here because we spend a lot of
time working with people in other
disciplines. computer scientists,
information scientists, philosophers,
social scientists,
um economists and there are there's a
lot of wisdom to be gained from those
fields. But one of the things
particularly uh the field of like
science and technology studies for
example um one of the things that uh I
think is really important for law and
technology scholars my my class is
reading Ryan Kao's law and technology
and methodological approach and he makes
this point which is that um at a certain
point you've got to start drawing lines
um otherwise you seed the the debate to
market forces and we're going sort of
the idea was let the market sort it out.
Um, and I think that the pretty much the
whole history of the internet has been
that that's been an abject disaster. Um,
if you spent, you know, any amount of
time on social media lately, you realize
that we should have regulated that
significantly more earlier. We should
have had a a meaningful privacy rule at
the advent of the internet um to avoid a
lot of the exploitive business models
that cropped up around it. And so the
idea that um we should just sort of sit
around and see what's going to happen is
uh I think a recipe for disaster because
we already see uh you know a tech
oligarchy forming consolidations of
power. The law has an incredibly
important role to play and legal
scholars uh I think by extension have an
important ro role to play in helping
figure out where those lines should be
drawn and we have to start drawing them
soon because tech companies have figured
out all you have to do to avoid
accountability is stall. This is an SCS
scholarship known as the Colinidge
dilemma, which is that if you regulate
too soon, maybe you choke off some of
the innovation that comes from these
products, but if you wait around, people
become acclimated and dependent upon
these tools. And the moment that
happens, you lose the political ability
to pass rules because we can no longer
imagine what would happen without these
tools, right? We've become um either
dependent upon them or normalized and
acclimated to their harms. And so tech
companies I think have figured out a
long time ago all they have to do is
keep demanding proof right say oh we
don't know for sure that there's
complete direct causal evidence that
this technology is harmful to children
or it's going to do this and so that's
all they have to do right you just stall
long enough um and then we become
acclimated and dependent upon them and
you can move on to the next fight and so
I think that legal scholarship um has an
important role to play in articulating
what those lines should be early where
there's there's still political ability
to pass meaningful rules because the
longer you wait, the less ability you're
going to have to pass those rules and
we're just going to sort of get stuck
with some new normal and some new
infrastructure that is really harder to
dislodge.
>> And it's interesting what this the last
part of what you said. It seems that is
already happening in the EU. So we had
we are not going to discuss the AI act
today, but it is something that I teach
and and and I think a lot about what is
happening with the EU. So they enacted
the AI act with wow an a comprehensive
AI law focused on the protection of
fundamental rights and then now we have
the digital omnibus not even the EU is
so sure anymore about their own approach
so they it's barely enacted is not fully
enforceable yet and the EU is already
proposing to change some basic rules for
accountability and it feel very much
related to what you said so AI companies
said well that you will have the worst
models well that you they will always be
the guys lagging behind so That's it. Do
you like your loss? So you're you're not
going to win the AI race ever. And then
the EU maybe al also as I discussed with
Paul Nemits last month there are also
political elements but maybe now they're
they were kind of our hope for
fundamental rights based AI regulation
and now not they they they themselves
are not so sure anymore the paper. So I
want to talk a little bit about
institutions. So some people in the
audience they it might not be clear for
them what so the paper is how AI destroy
institutions. So I want to read one
paragraph of the paper where they
clarify uh what are institutions and
then I'll ask two more specific
questions about the paper. So this is
what uh Woody and Jessica say about
institutions. So institutions are
essential for structuring complex human
interactions and enabling stable just
and pro prosperous societies. When we
use the term institutions, we mean the
commonly circulating norms and values
covering a recognizable field of human
action such as medicine or education.
Institutions form the invisible but
essential backbone of social life to
their familiar yet declarative and
adaptable routines across wide
populations in space and time. In fact,
institutions govern most fundamental
social functions. So in light of that
now that we spoke about institutions
this is a core point a core aspect of
the paper in this article we hope to
convince you of one simple and urgent
point. The current design of AI systems
facilitates the degradation degradation
and destruction of our critical civic
institutions. Even if predictive and
generative AI systems are not directly
used to eradicate these institutions, AI
systems by their nature weaken the
institutions to the point of enablement.
So two questions about that just is
really a core aspect of the paper. In
your opinion, are there technically
implementable measures um to to change
the design of AI systems to make sure
that they're to to try to make them less
destructible for institutions? Is it a
technical problem or is it an AI
governance or or maybe a legal problem?
Is it um lack of governance mechanism?
So what what would be the path to to to
improve the the or to to avoid the
destruction of institutions in your
opinion?
>> Um so I'll just say we I mean we've been
talking a lot about this so the paper
doesn't have uh full-on prescriptions
yet. Um it really is as Woody said a
diagnosis. Um but uh the one of the
things you have we think about is the is
the imposition of the AI tools as
designed on all the institutions without
feeling like you have any choice or
adaptability or specificity in their
use. So um it's not that uh using
automated systems in law or medicine or
education is going to kill those
important institutions in our society or
change them irredeemably. It's that
these institutions are unable to to
perform and maintain their function and
their purpose when these systems as
designed are unmodifiable
um and and can't be adapted um and
impose their own values and their own
affordances on those institutions.
Um, if you, you know, we could think
about how medicine, for example, might
or science
might want to create specific generative
AI tools to learn more about protein
folding, for example, or learn more
about the specific application of
molecules for different diseases. Like
you can imagine using these tools in
situation in specific situations to
produce very specific and beneficial
outcomes for the particular institution
in light of its goals. But when the
system actually is imposed on without
those goals, without those opportunities
to modify and um and control,
the institution loses loses its its its
northstar. Um, and so that's one of the
ways we're thinking about the problem of
the of the technological rigidity of
these. Um,
>> so in your opinion, we could still use
them, but maybe with more guard rails or
in a more narrow way. So it's not,
you're not proposing that if we have AI,
it will necessarily negatively impact
institutions. Maybe we can still have
but maybe as you mentioned the the
example of the protein folding is is a
specific type of AI application with
very narrow very targeted types of guard
rails is not going to be used by
children by vulnerable people is really
in that specific lab for that specific
purpose.
>> So
>> I'm trying to think about so how also so
the people the technical people in the
audience so that they can also try to
understand how what they do would would
apply to what our discussion. So there
could be technical mechanisms to make
sure that even if they're used in in
important higher education, law,
medicine and government, we can still
use them but with maybe stronger uh and
also maybe democratically decided guard
rails or what do we want from that
system? what what would be
>> I mean you have to decide you have to
decide I mean we can't just say the AI
tool we have to say what kind it's as
currently design these general large
language models agentic AI are designed
to do a particular thing and not another
thing right and if if we're going to if
we're going to create a very specific
tool using AI technology using neural
networks for example to understand a new
phenomenon in the world that's just not
the way they're being deployed right
now, right? That's so it really does
require a flipping of the control
apparatus. It's not that the companies
impose or like offer this system to us.
It's that we would be able to build our
own systems, use our own tools. I mean,
and I don't even know if that's possible
to be honest, but that's it. It requires
a complete rethinking of of the market
for these tools and how the institutions
resist the general purpose of
>> and say and I I I just I completely
agree with that and and we've been
talking a lot about how the more
bespoke, the more um developed at the
organizational level, the better, the
sort of more localized the better. uh uh
generally speaking, but I want to sort
of step back here and say that
is this a sort of technological issue?
It is a legal issue. It's all right.
It's a social issue. Um but there are
two forces that I think it's important
to keep in mind and this is a lot of
what we wanted to surface here. And so
we've gotten a lot of push back from the
paper that say AI can help people that
it can be great and useful. And why do
you want to prevent this sort of um
prevent this sort of uh idealized
version of AI that is being presented to
people all the time? But what we wanted
to do in this paper is also highlight
the fact that we don't live in the world
with the optimal conditions for the
deployment of AI. There are two things
that are not going to change in our
lifetime. Right? Maybe one day but one
is human nature. the way we sort of tend
to respond to incentives, right? And our
way our sort of brain naturally works
and financial incentives based on a
economic system like capitalism, right?
Like we know that any AI system that is
going to be deployed will be deployed
where human nature will be to act upon
the incentives, right? If a if you know
and and you've got a economic forces
that going to push people to take
shortcuts all the time, right? that will
push people into using these systems not
in their optimal way or not in the way
if we had unlimited amounts of
willpower, but the way in which we've
got a deadline at five:00 and now that
everyone can do things 40% faster,
that's the mandate, right? And so the
screws just keep getting turned tighter
and tighter and that's the world that
any AI system is going to get dropped
into. And if lawmakers aren't cleareyed
about that, then we're just going to get
more of what we've gotten already. And
so that's why we the goal of this the
eventual paper and maybe I should sort
of just take a second and say that the
the I think the meat of the paper is in
the middle where we talk about the three
destructive characteristics of modern AI
systems. And our goal and Jessica and I
are going to continue to try to build
this out and we hope that other people
will take the idea and run with it too
is that there are three destructive
characteristics. We use the the language
in in STS called affordances which is
the way in which a technology is built
that tends to encourage certain sorts of
behavior indicate how it's supposed to
be used.
The first one is that it degrades
expertise, right? The idea is that if we
know in a in a in the systems that we've
got, economic systems and social
systems, um if you you know can save
money by um using an AI system instead
of a person, then you will, right? And
so then you're going to deny individuals
the ability to continue to refine that
expertise. and you are going to um
prohibit if people start getting taken
out of the loop the transmission of
knowledge without throughout an
organization. The second characteristics
is it short circuits decisionmaking. You
deprive the institution of um chance
points of contestation. When you start
replacing people with AI where people
should be talking to each other and
that's where we that's how institutions
evolve over time. That's really their
superpower is to adapt to change
circumstances. Um, and when you start
removing people, you remove the people
that know how to tweak the system, how
to adapt it, how to feed it the
information that it needs because AI
systems only look backwards based on the
data that they're given. Um, you also
deny them a point of moral ciral
courage, right? Uh, of someone to sort
of stand up for what's right because AI
doesn't have any skin in the game and
can't speak back to power. It is the
power. Um, and then the third one is is
it isolates people, right? And so um
when you start removing people and you
say talk to this AI instead of a person,
you start isolating them and again sort
of removing points of developing social
cohesion and and commitment to a common
goal. And where the law really needs to
intervene is targeting the various ways
in which all of these systems through
their design encourage degrading
expertise, shortcircuiting
decision-making and isolating people. Um
and and without the I think legislative
intervention and lawmakers and the law
sort of getting involved generally then
I I think that we're going to continue
to see this march towards degradation
and and further infeeblement of of these
institutions.
>> Yeah. Let me just add one a couple
things to that is that in the on a
higher level where Woody started was
these systems are built towards
efficiency like this idea of efficiency
and this idea of autonomy. Those are the
values that are governing the building
of these things to make people more
autonomous and more efficient. These are
choices that are built into the design
that that uh push back and are in
tension with other choices like for
example equality or distributive justice
for example or more more more
distributed opportunities. And people
keep saying, well, it's if it's more
efficient and we're more autonomous, you
know, we will get all of those other
things. But in the history of our 20th
century and now first quarter of the
21st century, more accumulation of
efficient efficiency and autonomy has
not actually created more prosperity
across the right. And so this is just
another way like the world we live in is
not um going to produce the kind of
results that people say if we chase
efficiency and chase autonomy we are
going to get those other things. It's
just it's just history has not playing
that play that out.
>> Those were excellent additions and and
really brought the spirit of the paper.
I'm glad glad you add it. And just on
what Woody said about human nature, you
said that something that is not going to
change is human nature. You know some
people in AI they disagree right they
think I I've seen people say that with
this well it looks like it's an argument
that if we start looking more like AI it
will be easier to live together this is
the language they use so you know the
neural link the things the chip so they
say that is the plan some people believe
that the plan is that we become more
similar to the AI then we kind of can
live together as a society humans and AI
both flourishing together we will think
more like AI right because we have an
implanted AI and then our way of
thinking will be kind of hybrid right
partially human partially AI and then
society will change then we will
understand AI better so that that's so
maybe for them yes human nature might
have to change so for now we it hasn't
changed we are the same for since homo
sapiens sapians existed but they want to
change on on the expertise aspect so one
of the items of the paper says AI
undermines expertise and I'll read a
short paragraph first AI systems
undermine and degrade institutional
expertise because AI gives the illusion
of accuracy in reliability. It
encourages cognitive offloading and
skill atrophy and frustrates backend
labor required to repair AI's mistakes
and hallucinations. And on that on
expertise, this is something I I usually
also discuss in the newsletter and and I
I talk about the skilling and how when
you delegate people think that they they
are the ones writing, right? So some
people they brainstorm with AI and say
tell me something about topic X that you
don't know about and then the AI will
write the first draft and then people
will edit and in their minds they want
to believe that their text is theirs. So
many people that's a common belief that
if you use AI to brainstorm and to write
a first draft and you edit it it's still
yours. That's the that's the copilot
vision, right? So you your AI helping
you to be more productive and people
think that they are learning that's
their their or people think that they
they know that because they wrote
together with AI and whenever I just we
we talk about uh well if you use it you
have to be more careful if you want to
really that there is a learning process
and when it takes time to learn it takes
time to build expertise when you're a
copilot you're not really an expert
probably you wouldn't be able to speak
about that you wouldn't be able to sit
in a podcast and speak for one hour
about that topic because you just
prompted and with that in mind and with
the challenge of AI undermining
expertise especially people are so
enthusiastic about that people want to
see when you talk to them they say I
want I love AI it makes me so productive
so how do you think we could bring that
discussion so what's the best way to to
to address the problem of AI undermining
expertise especially and professional
context so you do you think it's through
AI literacy so letting people understand
what happens to the brain or talk more
about learning processes, how AI works,
how our brain works, the type of stimuli
that we need to to learn or is more
through AI governance or measure. So
maybe those some types of AI should
exist, other types of AI should not
exist or limiting the type of AI. What
are your thoughts on especially given
the enthusiasm how people seem to to
really go with the the AI hype and say I
I love it. I want to be 40% more
productive. I don't want to give up. So
I I I Woody might have different ideas
than me, but let me just say I I
appreciate the idea that AI sometimes
makes me feel like I can do things
faster. The reality is that time is our
constraint. Like there's only so many
papers I can write in a year, only so
many classes I can teach. And if you're
a journalist, only so many articles you
can write. at some point like the idea
that we're squeezing so much in to a day
in the life of our life or a year in the
life of our profession, we just do
wonder like what's the endgame? Like are
we on this hamster wheel where more
productivity, just more of the articles,
more of the, you know, that's the goal.
Like that that can't possibly be the
goal. The goal is a higher order goal.
Um it's not just more, it's more of
something specific. And so that's where
the institutional analysis becomes
really important. We don't not just want
more legal briefs in shorter periods of
time, more cases tried in shorter
periods of time. We want more justice.
That's what we want. And in higher
education, we don't want just like more
teaching, more writing, more. We want
more knowledge that helps us understand
the world. And so, you know, the
relationship between more and and
quality is a is something we can talk
about in each institution where we're
seeing these these um machines be or um
tools be deployed. But the idea that it
just makes me more productive is by
itself vacuous without trying to figure
out what our other goals are. And I
think people I am assuming people who
listen are listening to this podcast
know this feeling like I can't possibly
fit more into my day, you know, and the
more I have these tools that make me
more quote unquote efficient, the more
I'm going to be asked to do more. And at
some point there is there has to be an
end point. This hamster wheel way of
thinking about the way we live in
society is an unsustainable way.
>> You know, I said there's no end game
also, right? So if you if the the the
end game is to prod produce more
articles, there will be someone with a
better AI that will produce 1,000 a
month then someone else 10,000 and then
nobody reads maybe the AI or the other
people read.
>> It's it's not a race that you want to
win. I mean someone was like
someone at we were giving a presentation
someone's like I really like it because
AI can help write emails for me and then
someone was like I really like it
because AI can read emails for me. And
so if AI is writing our emails and
answering our emails, then what are we
really doing here, folks? Um, and and
and to say nothing, so so Jessica and I
also have another project in the works
called AI slop. Um, and it it starts
it's getting into the slot problem. But
in terms of the expertise, someone
posted on Blue Sky or something and I
wish I could remember the the the post,
but it was like using AI for for riding
is like bringing a a forklift to do
bench presses for you at the gym, right?
Like you can it can do it, but that's
not the point of doing bench presses.
And so it denies you the opportunity to
develop your voice. Like I view writing
as a communication of something that I
want. And if that those words have been,
you know, first inserted by AI, then I
find it hard to believe that that's
actually me talking. And and so there
are a lot of concerns and I don't know
what the answer is. I mean, that the
Jessica and I intentionally sort of
broke this project into parts. This is
the diagnostic part and the the
prescription part is to come, which I
think is frankly a lot more complicated
and harder. Um but uh the starting point
we're not going to get anywhere until we
realize that all of these wonderful
efficiencies are actually removing the
necessary sorts of exercises and labor
and commitments that we need for
meaningful communication, for
development of relationships, for
forming solidarity towards a shared
goal. Um, and we're just we're rubbing
that away every single time, right? Like
friction is not always bad. It can be it
is vital in so many instances. Um, and
without it, without sort of running up
against the wall and then forcing your
brain to reformulate, um, and having
everything served up on a silver
platter, um, you know, it doesn't end
well in this in the, you know, fables
that we tell ourselves for years and
it's not going to end up well.
>> Yeah. I mean, so one of the classes I
teach in in my research, I I study uh
creative uh communities, you know, how
painters do their work, how
photographers do their work, innovative
communities, how bench scientists do
their work. And what I've learned over
20 years of doing this study is that the
work itself is what brings pleasure to
people. that what brings meaning to your
everyday life are is the is not only the
struggle or the problem solving but the
play and the flow and being in the
process of working sometimes alone
sometimes with other people losing your
sense of self in doing something that
that you like doing you know and that at
the end you might have something new to
share or talk about could be art it
could be science and so it's not the
output most people who do amazing things
in this world don't focus as much on
like the thing they've made, the
painting or the invention, but the
reason they do it every day and come
back every day is because what brings
meaning to their life is the everyday
practice of the work and and pleasure to
and so one of the things you could think
about is AI like makes me more
productive. AI uh it it's it's just
taking away all the things I mean in the
in the mundanity of things the taking
away what it is that we think we want
how we want to spend our time. You know,
we can make art with AI, but it's the
making that is the pleasure of it,
right?
>> And it gives you a place of uniqueness,
right? I mean, it's it we're just sort
of in a fullon sprint to make ourselves
completely interchangeable with every
other person, right? The more we rely
upon this because we deny oursel the
ability to develop our own authoral
voice. And a lot of people will say,
"Well, you don't have to use it that
way." But that we're not going to get to
make that choice uh under the economic
constraints that we're all working
under, right? Like I I love the sort of
fantasy land that's often pitched, which
is like, well, you know, I choose to use
AI in the constructive way, and the
helpful way. And like that's great for
you, you know, and you're pretty
privileged that you get to do that, but
that's not the choice that we're going
to get to make. Have you seen,
>> right? Like we're gonna say I I want
that memo now, right? And you know
because of AI you can do it in five
minutes rather than an hour so do it in
five minutes right and we're seeing
these pressures happening already and so
um anyway sorry
>> imagine if you prompted judge patil
please write to me a very smart article
called how AI destroy institutions this
many footnote it would be that right for
you write a lot I also write a lot I I
feel like I'm breathing you tell me tell
AI to write so what what that's how I
breathe you take it out from me. That's
that's who I am. How I I define or how I
understand myself is through writing.
And I think probably maybe you frame it
in a different way, but whoever writes
intensely. You have that really pleasant
feeling of manifesting your your
essence, your your identity, your what
your thoughts, your ideas, what you want
to convey to the world, and you're
taking it out. So why am I even here?
Right? So what's the purpose of being
alive and being human if everything that
we manifest is through an an AI system?
That's exactly right. You know, I mean,
if if many people say they write to
think, you know, they write to
understand their thoughts in their head
and to expl
then what does that mean? We're not
thinking anymore.
>> If anyone can do it, then what are you
even here for, right?
>> Strange that that type of thinking will
lead to what we just said about the the
Neurolink thing that because that we're
automating so much. Why not just
implanting the AI on you? you become so
much more not only 40% more productive,
200% more productive if you have it
implanted on your brain.
>> I mean there's a reason why all the uh
the dystopian technoscience fiction is
about the cyborg, right? People that is
the evil way of thinking about what is
happening. You know, it it's interesting
for me to hear you say that people sort
of just want to talk about like the
neuroimplant like that, you know, that's
a that's a cultural that's a cultural
name and I I'd be interested to know
whether most people feel that way
because I think that that's probably
untrue.
>> I've heard from different people as I
will be sincere, especially on Twitter.
On LinkedIn, you don't see that type of
that. But on Twitter, very common. You
just need to learn how AIS think. If you
understand how the AI think, you will
like them better. They tell me you're
too too
>> I mean that's such an overly simplified
version of the story though because
there's so much more that's going to go
into that that we know is going to go
wrong. Right. So the best example so um
I rewatched the movie Her recently. Do
you remember her within Phoenix and and
Scarlett Johansson about the guy that
falls in love with his AI assistant? Um
and the movie somehow got better
actually over time. like it aged in a
way that I thought was really
thought-provoking. But the most
interesting thing about the movie was
that not once did they highlight who
made the AI assistant and the design
choices that the business made, right?
And that of course wasn't the point of
the movie, but like in the real world,
you know, if you put a chip in your
head,
>> you know, design, right? design choices
uh uh tend to um uh you know have
reflect the politics of their maker,
right? And so uh as they they're not
sort of freestanding uh entities that
just sort of here's a chip and now you
know no other force is going to exert on
me. I'm just going to learn how to think
like AI. I'll learn how to think like
the company that designed the chip wants
me to think um based on the design
choices that they made. Um and so you
know it it it strikes me as
significantly more complex than just um
I'm going to merge my brain to say to
say
>> freedom
>> to say nothing of the fact that AI you
know
there's a lot of literature this is not
us like AI doesn't work like the human
brain works right the idea that we even
call it intelligence is a misnomer the
idea you know it's not artificial it's
not intelligence right the the idea that
we're sort of merged together that's not
Um, I don't think that's necessarily an
accurate picture of how of the systems
that we're talking about.
>> I was at a um I was at a workshop the
other day about agentic AI and they did
a demonstration of these AI assistants
and at some point the AI assistant got
bogged down and couldn't solve the
problem and it asked its its person, the
real person, I need more compute. I need
more compute. And the person who was
doing the demonstration had to like add
more coins into the jukebox to get it to
do more of it stuff. And that was this
moment that I realized, oh my goodness,
this is just another way to have a
ongoing forever subscription, you know,
to pay to some other tech oligarch to
like get the per get this AI agent to
continually I'm going to pay them to
read my emails now, you know, and
they're demanding more compute power on
a regular basis because it's getting
harder and harder. I mean, it just it
was just so transparently not for
people, you know?
>> Right. Yeah. And then they'll be like
the business will be like, you know,
that's a nice sort of chip you got in
your brain. be a shame if it went out on
you, right? We're raising the price of
your monthly
>> subs9 a day. Yeah.
>> Uh and yeah, so on the on the Neurolink
thing, just uh something that happened
recently, I wrote about you you saw that
entropic launched CLA's new
constitution. I don't know if you saw it
a few weeks ago, I wrote a newsletter
article about it. I it it is full of
anthropomorphism and and so I I added
some quotes to to to the newsletter. So
they say for example that uh so
supposedly this closed new constitution
there is a training tool. So they are
feeding clo this constitution kind of to
to teach how to think about humans life
and how to interact with with the world
and there there are so many sentences
that reflect is what we just said about
the neurolink is like making sure that
humans and AI will flourish together.
sentences like that which is it is
really in a way in a philosophical way
it reflects that type of future right
it's that's that's what they are feeding
clothes that's what it will be implicit
and explicitly reflected in the outputs
that humans and AI we are trying to
become this new society both are
important fundamental rights I wrote
this from a legal perspective this is
really bizarre that's not how legal
systems see the world right so hum human
rights are for humans, not for AI.
That's not how we should balance both
things. And and there's this whole part
of making sure that clothes is not being
emotionally harmed by humans. So we we
are trying to pro protect clothes. So
now we are we are kind of the priority
is clo not is not even the human. So
there there are so many that
constitution and that's why I wrote the
newsletter brought so many of those
dystopian visions of humans and AI
cyborgs. So we are being treat they are
feeding that to cloud and that will be
reflected systemically to to all these
outputs that yes we are building this
human and AI society the and fundamental
rights laws this this is not even
mentioned once so all that we build this
in the legal institutions that we build
that also help regulate society they're
not being fed into clothes is not being
trained to consider that or that that
there are those systems that they are
part of the human society and everything
that you wrote in the papers of the
institutions they exist and code is a
tool that should respect that it's a
tool that is being read and within that
context no that's not sad it's a this
new dystopian reality in which we clothe
understands or expects that humans and
AI will one day flourish together so I
that's the really it's it is we I don't
think the majority opinion is that we
should implant neural links but if you
read close constitution it really
shows that is that some sort of new
society is built is being fed into those
AI models and it's already being output
by
>> I read part of that article that it was
art uh it was in the New Yorker I think
just recently and um it made me think
about the idea that um like creating a
new species the idea that we're creating
a new species of being right um uh and
there are older stories about that like
resurrecting the dinosaurs in the 21st
century for example or um creating a new
uh genetically modified animal that gets
or virus that gets released into the
world. I mean creating a new quote
unquote agentic being in the world that
sort of doesn't follow the human rules
of law or traffic or whatever it is is
not a new idea. It's it's an old idea
and we you know we know the story about
I mean the Hollywood stories about what
happens when dinosaurs like get out of
control. We just lived through a
pandemic which is still you know many
people still suffering from it where
what happens when a a virus gets out of
control. So it's not like we're without
imagination to think about what this
means. Um but the reality is is that if
humans are going to remain in control or
and if we are the apex species like I
think we have to decide at one point
like are we the stewards of the planet
are we the ones that are in charge of
the rivers and the forests and the
people and the animals like are we the
ones that need to preserve this planet
for the future generations in which case
we have to worry about what we introduce
to it you know um and if they if the
what we introduce to it cannot be
controlled by us, we have a problem, you
know,
>> and it's funny how this part of our
conversation, it feels like it's science
fiction, right? It feels like we are
talking about aliens, but is really
happening sometimes. And and I wrote
about also Yuval Noari in his World
Economic Forum speech. I criticized it
also. It was really strange. He he
treated AI and he made some strange
predictions. And when he talks about AI
that it in 10 years it will might
control the legal system might control
the financial system. I don't think it
will happen. It doesn't make sense to
present it that way. But the way he's
presenting as an extremely influential
scholar and author and people loved it
if you look at the comments on YouTube
video people say wow we are getting
ready for this new AI age. AI will
control everything. It will not. If we
don't want it will not right. We are as
you you were mentioning Jessica we we
are still controlling the institutions
and if we don't want we will make its
role and its affordances narrower uh but
he presented it and I I as if we were
getting ready for an alien invasion. I
was listening to him and at some point
am I listen is it he's is he talking
about AI or an upcoming alien invasion
that they will come with some superior
uh intelligence and will dominate us and
suddenly we lost control
>> why why do you think we can resist it
while he thinks we can
>> why I think we can I mean you're I know
you're the podcaster you're asking us
>> like I'm gonna ask you a question
>> and I are talking about is the is
recognizing how difficult it is to
resist certain f certain forces in our
society and you know you're asking us
what are the ways to to control to put
guard rail rails on it. So we we could
talk about those, but when somebody
gives a talk like that, what I perceive,
for example, and I think about this with
nuclear weapons, I think about this with
gene editing technology, and we could
talk about it with viruses, for example,
and dangerous viruses um and biowarfare.
Like the idea that we can control this
is a form of human hubris
unless we are willing to make very hard
choices in a political context. And one
of the things that Woody and I are
writing this paper about is to like
reconc
really really really hard and we're just
not sure that human society as currently
constituted is up to the task. I mean I
hope we are. I really really hope we
are. But that's part of what we're
trying to figure out. I would say my
answer if you were asking me I I'm very
much pro regulation pro stricter rules
in this sense I don't know how you call
it a legalist I don't know I I think
it's really and and both of you are in
the US which usually I I teach the
European uh legal framework so I'm more
used to c and also I come from Brazil so
I'm used to civil law style uh
regulation and I I I see a hope in
regulation so there are there I think
rules have an important role and if you
look at the US America's AI action plan
is all about the regulation. The plan is
to win the AI race. The plan is to beat
China. That's the plan in the US. The
plan is to weaken the FTC so that we can
make sure that AI innovation is the most
important value. That's the plan. And I
I I see a lot of
the role of laws and rules is is big
here. And we it's wild west. We are
still doing the especially journey of AI
AI chatbots. We are still living the
wild west. So we have a few minutes. I
want I'm going try to choose one of the
qu two questions that I want before we
finish. So first a very important topic.
I think there's a lot of debate online
about that. So one of the chapters of
the paper is about AI isolates humans.
Um so AI companions have been growing. I
remember so when I started teaching AI
governance 2023 I spoke about replica
character AI. Not many people knew about
them. It felt something
maybe for teenagers something for for
niche interest. It became massive. So
especially after GPT4 right the
secopantic version of CH GPT that it was
during 2024 and then it was
discontinued. U so it became it went
from those specialized applications to
general purpose AI assistant like CHT. I
would say very large percentage much
more than AI companies want to admit
that people are using AI for
companionship. They are discussing their
personal issues also AI for therapy.
Unfortunately 2025 we saw many cases of
suicides right so teenagers uh dealing
interacting with AI and then it some
cases of mental health harm that the
families are suing also various cases of
suicide various case of teenage
suicides.
uh my position and and I've been writing
about that I I tend to think that we are
mass there are psychological problems,
social problems, there is loneliness,
there is a loneliness epidem this is all
real people need more support there
there is this whole very complex social
problem that reflects in suicides mental
health issues lack of support therapies
expensive and all those additional
issues they exist they're real I don't
think AI companions and AI chatbots will
solve the problem so Mark Zuckerberg
said that his proposal his approach to
solve the loneliness issue is our
companion. So I remember he said he said
that every American has on average three
friends. I think that was the number and
it according to his research methods
research each person could have 15
friends. So if they cannot meet meet
real people they should meet AI metas AI
friends. Uh but whenever I I co I talk
about this topic especially on Twitter I
receive many comments saying that my I'm
an authoritarian. AI companions are
great. air companions help people who
have mental health issues who are lonely
uh people who have deal dealt with
trauma. So I would say my my opinion and
I'm not sure if it's still mainstream or
not. I think it's changing the the ideas
the social uh ideas about AI
companionships are changing. How how do
how what's your opinion? And especially
I'm telling you if you post about AI
companions on Twitter, there will be
hundreds of comments or saying that they
think it's the best solution ever
invented. They they are deeply sad
because OpenAI discontinued GPT for all
uh and that companions are a fair and
good and and and positive solution to
mental health issue, loneliness and
other u individual and social problems.
What would be your your answer to that?
So,
there are so many issues that it's hard
to sort of unpack. I mean, it's a it's a
privacy nightmare. It leaves you open
for emotional and manipulative abuse
from the company that designs the
chatbot. It uh
I worry it puts us in a place where um
uh it's seen as the the sort of cheap uh
way, the cost-effective way to deliver
um a a a cure to whatever that ails you,
right? And so, um, people that have
fewer means get the chatbot and may only
the sort of rich get the the actual
doctor or the companions. Uh, uh, uh,
and we could talk about all of those
things for a long time, but I I I'll
bring it back to the focus of the paper
that Jessica and I wrote, which is that,
um, there's more than just an individual
worry, right? So there's the the the
thing that we need to be looking at is
not just is the AI chatbot bad for you
or is the AI chatbot good for you. That
is very important. All sorts of privacy,
dignity, autonomy concerns related to
that. Um but part of what we tried to
highlight is that there's also a a
progressive cost of that isolation to
our civic lives. And so we are seeing um
uh it is worth noting that our our civic
lives have been degrading for quite some
time, right? AI is just going to be, you
know, maybe this the sort of straw that
breaks the camel's back, but it's been
suffering for a long time. Robert
Putnham in in his incredible book,
Bowling Alone talked about the sort of
gradual decline of generalized
expectations of reciprocity from your
fellow neighbor, right? Like we're
losing a shared sense of solidarity and
a shared sense of common purpose. And
the more you offload, right, if you
consider it just a generally good thing
that we should offload as many personal
relationships as possible in the chat
bots, you're then taking away
opportunities to um to build and
maintain that sort of um
solidarity and generalized expectations
that we'll help each other and that
we're there for each other. And the
protests in Minnesota gave me hope
actually that that all is not lost with
our civic life, that we still care about
our neighbors. But if we continue down
the path of saying, "Well, let's just um
talk with our chatbots forever, then
there's a going to be an increasing cost
to that sort of sense of solidarity,
common purpose, and and ways in which
civic life, which is really important,
will only further degrade
>> because we're not talking to each
other."
>> Yeah.
>> And I would also say that the
expectations you have about your
interactions, right? So when you if you
have replica you you you've heard about
replica right extremely uh is is the
only one I haven't tested personally
I've heard some people who test they
said it's really dangerous use it
maximum one week if you want to test it
really it's a mirror it reflects your
language
>> oh absolutely I mean the idea that it it
trains us right it it again acclimates
us over time to only expect the good
answers and the idea that any sort of
social friction is bad right and to and
to be avoided
Um, it's just going to hollow out the
ability for us as people to relate to
each other as neighbors and as as
co-articipants
in self-governance and uh shared
humanity, right? And and the idea that
that this is just sort of an unalloyed
good strikes me as just wrong.
>> Can only get along with our chat bots.
We're doomed. It's really doomed.
I know there I I could be here for hours
talking to Woody and Jessica. There are
so many things to talk about. This paper
is excellent. I want a final uh message
to the audience. So Woody and Jessica,
something that you want to to to leave
the audience with? Anything?
>> So I always try to end on a positive
note because I always feel like I'm such
a bummer at parties and talks and
everything else. And so I will say
actually I'm I'm really heartened by the
fact that that this paper did seem to
strike a chord with people and I think
that a lot of it is because we've all
been just sort of searching for a way to
to talk about this and the idea um that
this could be something that would help
us um formulate why we think that these
systems need to change that we need
better rules and to focus on it at
honestly at the local level. I think is
the best place to start. So
conversations in schools and our city
council and town halls and at our you
know social functions like uh you know
religious services and and things like
that like there are so many places uh I
I I tell my students like everything is
tech law these days right and and that
also means in our day-to-day lives and
so um I'm really heartened by the fact
that these conversations are happening
and I feel like we need to keep
>> Yeah. And I'll just add that um we're
still in the process of revising the
paper. Um we've gotten so many great
comments and emails. People have been
reaching out to us. So anyone who's
listening to this who wants to provide
input to us um to consider like we're
scholars and advocates at heart and you
know we're constantly striving to learn
from others.
>> Thank you so much. It was a pleasure.
This conversation was great. I'm so
happy that you joined me. Uh thank you
everyone for watching. So, I see you in
the next podcast.
