Hello everyone. Today I'm here with Paul
Nemitz and we are going to talk about
the role of data protection in the age
of AI. Welcome Paul. It's great to have
you here.
>> Thank you Louisa.
>> For those who don't know, so Paul is a
central figure in data protection in
Europe. So he used to work for the
European Commission including as a
director for fundamental rights and
citizenship between 2011 and 2017 which
is that very uh important period where
in which the GDPR was being discussed
and drafted. We will be talking about
that and especially the meaning of the
GDPR so the European general data
protection regulation today in the age
of AI with the rise of the general wave
and in light of the digital omus as
well. Uh in his last two years at the
European Commission he was the principal
adviser on digital transition justice
and consumers. He's also a visiting
professor of law at the college of
Europe. For those who don't know he's
also the co-founder of NOI. So he worked
with Max Shrimp's uh protecting
fundamental rights uh and he this year
so later this year he will publish a
book on AI data protection and more but
this will it's still a surprise so we'll
discover later on this year. So welcome
Paul I'm super happy to have you here. I
couldn't think of anyone uh better to
discuss this topics that we will talk
about today. So data protection, GDPR,
digital omnibus, the journey vi does
data protection matter in the age of AI.
So should is does data protection uh
still matter in Europe even in light of
the drugy report um the the pressure
that the Trump administration has been
also exerting over Europe and the recent
changes that we've been observing. So
let's get started. I let's start with uh
some super interesting questions. So
Paul, you were one of the people uh in
charge of drafting and and overseeing
the enactment of the GDPR. So back in
time even so the GDPR for those who
don't know it was enacted in 2016 and
became fully enforcable in May 2018
which is right at the time that Paul was
there. So can you tell us more about
that experience? So nobody you're this
is a very unique experience and I I
think most people have no idea what is
it like to be in that position. So
anything you want to share from your
personal perspective?
>> Well first of all I think it's a very
timely uh debate uh we are having today
and indeed it was also for me personally
a unique experience. Um I joined DD
justice as a director for fundamental
rights and thus the lead director on
getting GDPR on the books in 2011
and um so um I was really not only there
but I led the work as the let's say
highest um official in in the commission
on this file actively
um of course under the authority of Vice
President Reading at the time and Um the
enactment already was a battle. I mean
you know let's be clear about this
fundamental rights and the law generally
and you know German lawyers they learned
this you know we learned that you know
already sav in the 19th century said you
know the to get your right is a battle
and the same is true for democracy.
Democracy is always a fight. It's never
a given. And the same is true for
fundamental rights protection. So
already at the time when we um prepared
the proposal of course in parallel to
initiatives of the European Parliament
there were works having been going on
since 2009.
um you know there was heavy lobbying uh
from industry from American government,
chambers of commerce, from the United
States in particular and um it was clear
uh that this is an uphill battle and we
had as a vice president Mrs. raiding
from Luxembourg, a conservative
politician from the EP
and uh and that was the good thing. That
was the lucky constellation h because
she was steadfast that she wanted to be
sure that when she sits down before a
computer um she is not uh being uh um
used she's not being misled um she's not
being exploited and um and and she
really stood firm on getting this
proposal through
so this was a lucky consolation of
course then later the second element
let's say world historic element were
were the revelations of Edward Snowden
which brought it home to everyone how
important
data protection is. So if you ask me
today in the age of AI I can only say
data protection has even become more
important. Why? Because um on the one
hand the technology of AI makes it even
more easy to identify people. we would
not have dreamed of the possibilities to
target and identify people which AI
opened uh when we started the work on
GDPR. The progress of technology thus uh
uh you know puts the individual
self-determination of people even more
in danger um because not only can people
be identified, they can also with AI
much better be manipulated, much better
targeted. So um the need to protect
people's self-determination and that's
what data protection is about. It's not
in the first place about the data. It's
about people's freedom not to be
manipulated and to decide themsel how
they are seen by society. This uh need
to protect this is even higher today
than it it was at the time. And the
second reason why this need is higher is
the greed uh both of companies uh who
are ruthless in trying to get to the
data and use them to manipulate people
for profit but also the ruthlessness of
governments. you know, governments want
to know everything about their citizens,
including of course in dictatorships
um to suppress opposition. And the
combination of all those, I would say,
has just become even more dramatic in a
world of Trump and Elon Musk who don't
respect any rules of law, any
fundamental rights. And so I think we
can be very lucky that in Europe in
contrast to the United States there is a
fundamental right on the highest level
of the law on the level of primary law
namely in our the charter of fundamental
rights which has constitutional level
value uh to data protection. So the
legislature is not free to do anything
it wants but the legislature is bound by
this constitutional arrangement.
Thank you po and I agree with you about
the the this new technological reality
and new threats and I I I will go back
to that legitimate point and kind of
comparing 2016 or that let's say that
geopolitical context and also
technosocial context right there was no
generative AI perhaps less no AI race
perhaps less pressure from tech
companies maybe not maybe maybe I'm
wrong but do you think that so let's so
especially last year so I've been
writing the newslet letter and it's
interesting that during my masters and
my PhD I wrote about GDPR and consent
and so many uh European law related
topics and every new opinion every time
that there was some sort of publication
by Europe we saw very uh straightforward
this focus on the protection of
fundamental rights. So you read uh if
you read the GDPR articles you'll see
that GD the protection of fundamental
rights is at its core and when you read
for example the AI act also the first
article the subject matter article of
the AI act is also so promoting the
uptake of trustworthy AI and also
protecting fundamental rights in light
of the EU charter of fundamental rights.
So we know that at least in theory and
and as a legal pillar of the European
Union is the protection of fundamental
rights. This we know from a legal
perspective but what we saw happen and I
would say a main main trigger for that
was the draggy report right from
September 2024
the draggy maji wrote this report on
European competitiveness and then it was
it's a very long report showing that the
EU is lagging behind on various
indicators including AI and then what we
saw last year was this uh narrative
shift shift I've been writing about in
the newsletter so there was the AI
summit early in February where we saw uh
Ursula Vonda Lion and I think the the
the digital boss I forgot her name I
think it's I forgot her name uh she's in
charge of
exactly exactly she she said that we are
going to apply the AI act in a
businessfriendly way and as a lawyer I
hear that wow that's new how do you
apply a law in a business friend the
incentives are different right the law
is kind of shaping behavior should not
be applied businessfriendly way and then
we saw JD Vance right the the American
vice president he was looking at the
eyes of Urslavon the lion told her
you're going to remove the red tape and
we saw the tariffs other the elements of
geop political oppression and we saw
Europe definitely change at least its
narrative uh so we saw the the AI
continent plan and apply AI and various
initiatives and I'm always reading and I
know that words matter and I always read
PR releases and I don't see fundamental
rights anymore. Something has changed.
The EU now talks about competitiveness
AI race
and I don't see and talks about reform
in the GDPR. Right. So we see the
digital omnibus is more or less the the
concretization of this narrative shift.
So for my first question related to that
and connecting to what you said about
the threats. So the threats have become
even worse than they were in 2016,
right? technology still there, social
media and any uh and data harvesting all
all that existed in 2016 and 18 still
here and more. Now we have AI
manipulation and other AI related
threats but at the same time the
geopolitical context has changed. So do
you see the same political willingness
in the EU to prioritize fundamental
rights? What you experienced firsthand
there? Do you feel do you feel that same
vibe and and do you think that the EU is
ready or or is still interested in
prioritizing fundamental rights or maybe
it's not a priority anymore? Maybe now
it's maybe hand inhand with innovation
or or something else.
>> Well, I don't think um that the drag
report is the starting point for the
debate. I mean the reality is in a
democracy people get the politics and
the policy they voted for and um all
over the world we have seen um that
people first need to go through a valley
of tears to understand that bad policy
and bad voting namely voting for the
extreme right has a consequence for them
and you know before they they vote for
these people afterwards they regret it.
We have seen it h in the Brexit vote
afterwards. Now we have we have a
majority who says Brexit was not a good
idea. Well, too bad. H people in America
now are absolutely not fond anymore of
uh President Trump. The opinion polls
are very clear. Well, too bad you voted
for him. And in Europe too, people have
been voting and are still voting for the
extreme right. And the reality of Europe
is that it has shifted to the right in
the second mandate of Mrs. Fonderline.
There is now a potential majority in the
European Parliament between the EPPP
namely the centrist conservative party
to which Mrs. Fondonderline belongs and
also Mrs. Mrs. Merkel belonged and Mr.
MS belongs the German chancellors and um
the extreme right and uh so this is a
reality. Of course, the commission
itself is also composed of more uh
commissioners of conservative and
liberal descent because also in national
governments in the member states things
have changed and so I can only say um
it's not the drag report the general um
political positioning
um of uh the initiative body the
European Commission but also in the
world things have changed politically
and we have a new type of politics which
caters to a vague feeling of discontent
uh of businessmen who say well you know
this is all no good we don't want this
anymore there's no real empirics behind
it but it is something which we always
had I mean you know I learned in law
school in Hamburg law school first
semester whining is the greeting of the
businessman that's nothing new but what
is new is that even though they are no
clear empirics of the claims made by
these businesses and interested
political parties which are not good for
business which are just right-wing
anti-fundamental rights anti- people
rights
and and business will regret it uh one
day that they team up with them if they
do um now politics caters to these and
uh well we have seen the chain sort
being taken into executives in the
United States by Elon Musk
and you know in the commission there was
a little bit an atmosphere of oh we also
have to do something for business well
let's just do something
and um
so then in a very quick way something
was hot needled
um which I would say um is not good for
business it's also not good for people
and I am very sure if these proposals go
through we will regret it very soon and
I hope that in the council and in the
European Parliament now a serious debate
starts on what all these ideas mean and
we come back to what Europe is good at
and what we stand for. uh namely a
practical concordance of competitiveness
on the one hand and a strong democracy
and strong protection of fundamental
rights on the other. You know, we had
the same type of atmosphere in the time
of environmental protection laws going
forward. And it just took some time
until also the conservatives realized
that it's a good business proposition to
be re resource um um efficient, not to
use too much resources, not to pollute
the environment and that a lot of money
can be made in this way. And I think our
politicians in the European Parliament
and in the commission, they just have to
remind themsel and be reminded that
protecting data of people is a good
thing. It's not an obstacle to business.
It is the basis for trust in the digital
economy. It is basis for long-term money
making for digital businesses. And
that's what made in Europe stands for
and in the long run that's a competitive
advantage and not a disadvantage. And I
hope we are not going to destroy this
competitive disadvantage by just
catering to a vague feeling which
conservative politicians share with very
right-wing uh parties and you know we'll
just wave it through because it's the
sign of the times. That's not good
policym and it's not in the interest of
the people of Europe.
>> It's interesting that you're mentioning
the the political background this more
nuanced approach. I wouldn't I wouldn't
know that. So talking specifically about
the legal aspects. So I I I teach AI
governance so I know and I teach the AI
act and I'll just bring some examples.
So so the the digital ominous for those
in the audience. So there are changes
being proposed. So not only to the GDPR,
not only to the data protection
framework, but also to the AI act which
has very recently been enacted. It's not
even fully enforcable yet, but the
digital omnibus is also proposing uh
changes to the current text of the the
AI act and and I as someone familiar
with very familiar with the text I it's
difficult for me to understand what's
the logic behind so connecting to what
you said.
How come the changes being proposed will
in any way improve European
competitiveness or improve innovation?
And I think one a very I would give an
example. So one of the changes is very
technical. I'll try to simplify here. So
article 49 of the AI act has a
registration obligation. So if your AI
system is high risk, you have to
register it. And there is an exception
uh which I don't agree with the
exception. So even if there are two
criteria uh for high-risk systems, one
of them is annex 3. So if your AI system
is listed in one of the areas of annex 3
which education
um employment, essential private
services, essential public services that
those areas, you can still apply for an
exception, meaning that you can still
say that although your AI system is
listed as high risk in the AI act, it is
it does not pose risk to fundamental
rights. So it it will so then you
document this assessment and then it you
don't have to comply with the rules for
high risk and the only hope uh to
increase accountability here was the
registration obligation. So article 49,
the original version says
even if you claim that your that your
high-risisk AI system or or that your
originally high-risk system does not
pose risk and you're not going to comply
with the rules, you'll still have to
register it. And the omnibus is now
proposing to remove this obligation. So
the the the reason given is to reduce
the burden the the the compliance
burden. So now companies
that argue that they do not pose risk.
They also do not have to register
anywhere. Basically no accountability
for companies and entrepreneurs and
people who want to abuse the system and
simply not comply. The European lawmaker
or or European authorities
people who drafted the the omnibus are
saying well it's too much burden so no
registration anymore. So this is a very
interesting example. So this was the
only hope to make sure that we still we
were still protecting fundamental
rights. So we are still trying to make
sure that people were not abusing this
exception and now the the omnibus
proposes to remove this obligation and
kind of okay you close the eyes if you
if you don't want to comply and if you
want to argue uh in a in an abusive way
one of the exceptions we are not going
to even know it because there is no
registration. So it's great that you're
giving me this additional context
because from a technical legal
perspective the there was no way to
understand and and various others. So I
have here I brought some of the digital
especially for the audience who is not
familiar. So among the the the proposed
changes to the GDPR uh include so
changes in the definition of personal
data the changes to the definition of
scientific research uh changes to the
limitation of the right of access. So
limiting it exception from the right to
information, limitation of the right to
information and legitimate interests for
area system. So this is one of the the
most I would say uh impactful ones uh
and and and it's difficult for me to
understand how those changes would make
Europe more competitive. So you think
from your perspective Paul just to
connect back to what you're saying uh
there is no legal reason and it's pure
political pressure or there is a strong
technical grounding behind it maybe that
is not surfacing in this geopolitical
debate. So from what I understood that
the the strongest force here is a
political swift
in Europe. Uh so I wanted to understand
in your opinion so two things first is
it something that is probably going to
be overcome and in your opinion likely
the omnibus is not going to be approved
or is this shift that we are observing
from a legal perspective deep uh it goes
to the European roots and it's actually
represents something bigger from that
goes to the the legal roots of Europe.
Well, uh, so first of all, I would
indeed say, um, you know, there were
there was no serious impact assessment,
no public consultation.
Um, this these proposals are very
quickly put together on the basis of a
very general instruction from the top
catering to a general mood and the DRA
report contributed to this general mood.
um you know in the usual way of a
microeconomist knowing everything um
making recommendations on any type of
sectoral policy and in relation to GDPR
it's very very interesting in page 319
that's part B um all the footnotes which
are in the DRAI report supporting
the loud words about a need uh uh to
simplify and uh and and to change all
these footnotes are sources which are
not peer reviewed
um and uh you know consulting statista
partially very old sources. Um so I
would say um the draggy report certainly
is neither from an economic point of
view nor certainly from a legal point of
view are for suri a good basis for for
this reform and indeed
these proposals and indeed um if one
looks at the proposal you just mentioned
now um the um reduction of the
registration obligation the European
data protection board has already that
come on this is just a transparency
rule. This is absolutely no burden. This
is one little letter but it is very
valuable because it creates transparency
for everyone. So uh to sell this as an
advantage to business uh well I would
say uh you know let's have an impact
assessment uh of the costs of
registration and the benefits of
registration
um to the enforcement of the law also to
the general public's ability to build
trust in these systems and then let
let's look at it um again um and one
could do the same exercise with many
other proposals I mean I would Say
generally
companies which produce AI of high-risk
nature or general purpose uh nature are
companies which are composed of very
intelligent people and they even if they
are startups they must be extremely
smart and they are dealing with matters
which are extremely complex.
So to say these companies cannot handle
the sorry to say motherhood and apple
pie obligations of the AI act because
the AI contains nothing a reasonable
engineer wouldn't anyway do if the aim
is to sell in the long term uh and to be
a reliable AI company to say that they
can't handle this and it's too costly
and so on is completely unproportional
And uh so I would say um you know for
example um on the most
important type of AI today which is
general purpose um AI um
general purpose transformers and large
language models uh to delay uh the entry
uh into force of obligations
um you know it's just missing the point
because on these we have the most urgent
need to have rules and at the same time
the companies which are able to produce
use these are the biggest companies in
the world. So why do they need yet
another time delay uh to comply? This is
all
I think
impossible to explain uh to a reasonable
audience and we will see that in the
council and in the parliament there will
be a lot of questions are asked on this
and um and I hope uh that um at the end
and this is the key point that the EP
because they are central on this the the
the centrist conservatives the party of
Mrs. Merkel the great party of Mrs.
Merkel and of Mr. MS they have the
obligation not to vote anything through
with the extreme right but to find an
agreement um with the classic grand
majority namely the social democrats the
Greens and the Liberals.
This coalition
I'm sure in the end will come to a
result which brings practical
concordance between growth um and
protection including also protection of
democracy because that's what data
protection is about. It's not only an
individual right for people. It's not
only a you know for us as ah you know
not so important I have nothing to hide.
That's not the only reason why we have
data protection. We have also data
protection because we need to be sure
that neither the state nor big
corporates know everything about us
because if they do
democracy doesn't work. So we have also
a crisis of democracy and in this crisis
we have to take um data protection
serious and the it is the EP's key
challenge here not to go with the right
extreme rightwing and if they're able to
do this I I'm rather confident that we
will have a good outcome if they play
with the possibility
to go to with the extreme Right. Then
well I can only say people get the
politics they have voted for and like in
America the people who voted for Trump
and like in the UK the people voted for
Brexit people afterwards will regret it
but I wish it's not going to happen.
Thank you Paul as you brought u one of
my favorite topics which is AI the
intersection of AI and privacy
especially from this a more technical
perspective. So when we think one of
among the changes to the GDPR include
the right of access
um and it's a good uh link to what I
wanted to ask. So when we think about
large language models and you mentioned
general purpose AI models uh like LLMs
and and then we have general purpose AI
systems like CHP Gemini and and so on
and when we think about those new types
of technology that became extremely
popular and we think about traditional
uh data protection law for example right
of access right so uh right to
rectification so very super important
data subjects rights uh they became uh
really at the forefront
of EU data protection law starting from
the enactment of the GDPR and it is so
this I will say even from a technical
perspective it is challenging when we
think about at least the traditional way
we think about right of access okay I
should like the same way Max Shams did
back in 2011 right so he contacted there
was no the GDPR GDPR didn't exist yet he
relied on some transparency of
information Austrian law at the time but
Marams back in 2011 heaven contacted
Facebook and said hey I want to have
access to all my data and then Facebook
after some insistence gave him a file he
printed it was a p a big pile and that's
when mach he became famous that was the
first episode
so in in theory uh someone should be
able to do the same now right so that
just explaining to the audience so
according to the right of access I
should be able if I were covered by
digpr I should be able to contact openai
and say hey I want a file with all
information you you create from me to
train. I want the the information you
use for training, not the deployment
one, not the one I'm I'm inputting uh
into Chachi. I want the the training
information. And because of the way LLMs
are trained,
it looks like it's very difficult to
provide that information due to the way
the token tokenization work how
tokenization works and how LLM are
trained. it would not be possible or
rectification right let's see that the
same I see that noip there have been two
um complaints by noip recently where
where there were uh incorrect outputs so
people incorrect outputs about people
and then we say okay you have in Europe
you have the right rectification if a
company is processing data about me and
it's wrong I should be able to contact
them and say rectify but on a filter
level rectification they should be able
to somehow in the original database fix
it so that it will never come out wrong
again. And because of the way LLMs work
and how they are developed, it looks
like it's not so simple. We might try to
add a filter output level filter, but
there might be different prompts or
versa techniques that might cause the
same problem because it's in the
training data set. So it is challenging
and I I've been writing my newsletter
about that. Europe more or less has two
options here. One option would be to
say, well, the GDPR was important, but
it it's times are different now. Maybe
we want to to to adapt and to to apply
it in a much more flexible way when AI
is involved. Maybe right of access is
not so important or rectification only
to the extent it's possible and so on.
This is one one position. Another
position would be Europe being more I'd
say by the book and say as you mentioned
while you have so so many intelligent
people smart people building LLMs. So
please build an LLM that can comply with
all the GDPR data subject rights
everything that is written there you
have to find a way to comply and not
some exceptional compliance. You want
the same look at the jurist prudence. So
many companies have been fined because
they did not establish a storage period
or because they did not allow for uh
rectification. They did not comply. So
that it also applies to you dear AI
company. So please find a way to comply.
So I've been documenting this. There is
a clear it it feels like the ED the
European data protection board and the
European data protection supervisor they
are more the second alternative. Every
time I read their opinions carefully
they don't want to give up. they they
they even the new erh they proposed the
new language for legitimate interest for
AI system, it still says you still have
to comply with uh the interests and
rights of the data subject. But on the
other side, it seems that some sides of
maybe the European Commission, maybe
some other sides in the bureaucratic uh
uh engine in Europe, they're not so
interested in fundamental rights. if
they they perhaps they want to leave it
aside for a moment and let's try to win
the AI race. So what's your your both
your personal viewpoint and your view to
what's happening? So in this in this uh
scale who is going to win and and what
what you think should be the best path
here?
Yes, I'm not a great friend of making
predictions, but I'm a great friend of
participating in the debate and I think
everybody should do. It's not so
interesting the predictions. It's more
interesting you know how people engage
and I think the time to engage has come
again like at the time of the adoption
of GDPR and we need a lot of people to
engage in this debate because these
issues cannot be left just to the tech
um industry or for that matter to for to
so-called experts. Why? because uh the
type of issue which you just mentioned
like for example the very essential
right to access to namely know what
powerful companies or governments have
about me. This is in the end about the
question whether technology rules and
maybe the community uh rules of the
company rules or whether democracy
rules. So the question whether the
technology has to follow the law or the
law has to follow the technology. This
is about whether we have democracy or
not because if we follow the past that
we must change the law because there is
a technology which is called AI and in
this technology it's not possible
anymore to grant people fundamental
basic rights of access which they need
to exercise their data protection and
which they need to understand what
powers others have over them. If we say
well you know the technology
just can't do it therefore let's do away
with this right democracy is done it's
finished so what we are discussing here
when we talk about the very nittygritty
specific questions of GDPR changes and
also AI exchanges is do we have a
primacy of democracy and the rule of law
over technology and business models
or not. That is the basic question which
every time we have to come back to. And
now uh to break this down um a little
bit further, this question of whether
the um companies which make huge money
uh with um um very complex AI systems
and spend billions to develop them
whether they can just say sorry we can't
tell you the copyrighted works we have
used here too bad for you and we can't
tell you whether there's personal data
in it. Too bad for you. Sorry. You know,
I think that is not on and we cannot
tolerate this because this is the
biggest expropriation
and the biggest redistribution of
wealth, the biggest robbery
uh the world has seen so far if we would
let them go. And I would go one step
further in the United States. There's a
lot of litigation going on right now on
exactly these rights in the copyright
area. For example, the case of um the
New York Times um against um a chat of
open AI um and I have read the
submissions of the New York Times and I
can only say they're excellent and I bet
they will win. And there are many people
in the United States who say this can
bankrupt open AI and I would say rightly
so. So the argument that our system with
X antregulation
is more of a business impediment in the
midterm may be proved wrong because when
the litigation takes place in America
when there are triple damages uh awarded
for the use of um um copyrighted
material and you know in in the debate
about access and you know need to know
and then also need to pay or comply with
the or it's substantially the same
debate which we have on privacy and
personal data. Uh we will soon see that
at least some mechanisms in the United
States make uh uh not complying
complying with this very costly and
European industry says we don't want
triple damages in Europe but we also
don't want x antregulation. Well, sorry
guys, that is just an ask too much.
Practical concordance means we need at
least one of that. And we need to steer
the development of technology in such a
way that democracy and fundamental
rights have a future. And that means yes
the technology must be developed so that
the rights which are on the books and
which are linked to a fundamental right
of constitutional nature are respected
and it cannot go the other way around.
So I have a very clear answer on this
and let me also say one thing which I
have learned from Max and No about the
empirical reality of access requests.
The claim of industry that they are
faced with abusive requests in masses
and uh that they create huge costs is
completely
without any factual basis. The reality
is the other way around. Industry is
systematically stalling and not
fulfilling even the most simple access
requests on a mass basis. People have
been writing about that a lot and I'm
very surprised really very surprised
that the commission makes a proposal now
um to strengthen the right of industry
to somehow get out of access requests.
That's really not the issue. So you know
we have here typically a boo which is
created. There are no empirics which
support this and the empirics are
actually the other way around. If you if
the if the commission would have gone to
NOI and have asked what is your
experience
with industry um following up
constructively and fairly like the law
provides on access requests they would
have got uh the type of information uh
which you know people know. I can only
say try it. uh you know the classic
technique of many companies is to come
back to people and ask questions back
rather than just to answer uh the access
request. So um you know this is an
example where I would say let's not do
it uh because the companies which are
fair to their customers they will have
no problem with access requests those
who have problems with access requests
well I would say that's highly highly
suspicious highly suspicious and access
requests by the way can also be
automated you know it's not um rocket
science you need to deal with access
requests efficiently.
>> Thank you, Paul. And uh continuing what
we are discussing now, I want to to hear
as I I see that you're super involved
with AI act changes as well. So, when
the GDPR was enacted, we saw the
Brussels effect happen, right? So, for
those in the audience, Brussels effect
is this term coined by Professor Anna
Bradford. Basically, it reflect
Brussels. So the the European capital is
to reflect this European influ
regulatory influence over the world and
it became really clear I would say
probably the best case study for the
Brussels effect is the GDPR right so
when Europe enacted GDPR various other
countries uh looked at its tax and I can
say Brazil is one example and some of
the provisions of the Brazilian data
protection law are almost copy and paste
from the GDPR and we saw many other
countries in the world uh getting
inspiration sometimes really copy and
paste provisions uh and this idea of a
fundamental rights based data protection
framework
uh uh this this way of empowering people
through data subject rights and data
protection principles and so on. So we
saw that happening uh with the GDPR and
now with the AI act many people uh
including me but until uh early 2025
that's what I I thought I thought we
would see the Brussels effect all over
again right so the AI act is an AI law
comprehensive AI law uh based on the
protection of fundamental rights so
promoting the uptake of trust AI while
protecting fundamental rights in the
charter and preventing harm. So I
thought that's excellent. That's the EU
again. And by the way, it's not by
chance. The EU does that like willfully.
It's part of European tradition to to to
be this uh to to to be this I say this
source of uh light to the world in in
this regard of uh showing how to to
prioritize
fundamental rights. So many people
thought including me that the we would
see the Brussels effect happening and
various other countries copy and pasting
the AI and we haven't absolutely I would
I would say this hasn't happened. The
the only law that is more or less has
some close inspiration to the AI act is
the Korean AI law. Not so similar not
not not so such a strong versus effect
but a light one. But I don't have many
examples to say that yes the Brussels
effect is here. Um so my question to you
is uh first one is Europe still
interested proactively interested in
this regulatory influence or they kind
of gave up on that mission. This is one
and do you think that still can happen
that that maybe after you you you
brought the example of environmental law
which is a great example. So there were
some um kind of whining but then things
people realized the benefits and kind of
things were followed a better path later
on or and do you think that that could
still happen maybe 2027 2028 maybe we'll
see a wave of uh AI regulation consensus
other countries seeing the European
example and try to to say yes protecting
fundamental rights is important. What
are your thoughts?
Well, um first of all, um I have to
disappoint you a little bit because the
AI act in its original version as
proposed by the commission was not um um
devised in the first place to protect
fundamental rights. In fact, the key
elements of protection of fundamental
rights,
fundamental rights are now mentioned 105
times in the AI act. most of these
mentions and in particular the impact
assessment, the fundamental rights
impact assessment, but which only
applies um when AI is used in the public
service with a few small exceptions like
certain insuranceances and and credit
agencies have been inserted by the
European Parliament which shows that
democratic process ups the fundamental
rights protection.
Um
now on your question on
um the Brussels effect I think there
also you um you know you you
overestimate um and actually not
correctly present uh the the interest.
Brussels was never aiming for the
Brussels effect. The the Anu Bredford is
great in inventing terms and I think her
most important now most important piece
of writing is not that book but the
later article with the title the false
alternative between innovation and
regulation. very much more on point now
as reading and shorter than the book but
you know recommended reading to all who
go around and think um you know they
know it all and Europe just has to
deregulate and that's it that article by
the Colombia law professor Anu Bradford
is a masterpiece of analysis and should
be read by anybody now participating in
the debate on the omnibus bit but the
reality is and you know I've been more
than 30 years in the European Commission
the European Commission has never aimed
for the Brussels effect in terms of you
know having an ambition to rule the
world with this regulation. Absolutely
not. We have always and and GDPR I mean
I was the lead director. We looked
towards our duty towards EU citizens.
That's what who we serve and that's who
we cater for. And the fact that
afterwards people have copied it that
was not intended and we didn't search
for that.
What however we have done is we have
said well if we want to protect data of
EU citizens efficiently we must make
sure that if these personal data are
exported to other countries that the
chain of protection continues also in
those countries and uh the GDPR contains
the necessary elements uh to make sure
that this works and on this I must say I
am very disappointed by the European
Commission's non-action
on transfers to the United States
because in the good times of excellent
relations with United States and under
the Biden government and even under the
Obama government although the Obama
government lobbyed hard uh um you know
against EU legislation, President Biden
absolutely not. He supported the EU. So
in the good past times we did a very
special deal for the United States in in
the form of um self-certification system
which relies heavily on independent
bodies within the United States making
sure that promises of privacy and data
protection are complied with and that
also the government in terms of
surveillance is having checks and
balances. Um I would say you know under
President Trump we cannot rely on any of
that anymore. And to say oh we first
have to wait for court judgments. I mean
you know that's sorry we see what Trump
is doing every day. And we have seen he
has disabled the privacy and civil
liberties oversight board which is
supposed to oversee the national
security um agencies. He has disabled
the inspector generals. The FISA court
doesn't work anymore properly. The FDC
is being attacked. All these pillars of
adequacy of data transfers to United
States are being systematically
dismantled by the bully Trump. And what
does the commission do? Nothing.
And you know, I would say rather than
trying now to lower protection and the
omnibus bill, this is a point of digital
sovereignity. This is a point where we
could demonstrate that we have the tools
to protect our citizens and we can
increase our digital sovereignity by
suspending data flows to the United
States.
the law requires it and I'm I'm very
surprised
that uh you know we have a great
discourse on becoming independent and
furthering digital sovereignity but at
the same time we make proposals which
are lowering the protection but on one
of the key elements namely the continued
data flows into the hands of companies
which all line up with Trump and we have
seen it in the White House how they line
up with him. We are silent
and you know the commission could be
doing something here very clear
straightforward nothing and that is
something uh where I would say well you
know um again you know people get the
politics they have voted for this is due
to the composition of the commission.
Um, we now have seen also in the omnibus
bill that the justice commissioner is
not in the lead anymore on negotiating
GDPR changes, but it is the engineers
DG, the technical DG of DG connect. This
is certainly an innovation but it is an
innovation which does away with the
types of checks and balances which are
completely normal in any government and
have also always been normal in the
commission. namely that of course there
is a an element of constructive tension
between those responsible for
fundamental rights and justice namely
the justice ministry in the commission
the justice commissioner and on the
other hand those who are responsible for
industrial policy and what has the
president of the commission done she has
handed over
the fundamental rights protection GDPR
changes to the vice president who is
mainly catering ing to industrial
policy. Formally speaking, she is also
responsible for fundamental rights
protection
but um you know the proposals uh don't
look like this and uh neither she nor
the justice commissioner have taken a
very clear position on data transfers uh
to the United States which is really
something to regret. I think on this if
one looks at the beginning we talked a
little bit about the history of GDPR. At
the beginning of GDPR there were the
Snowden revelations and already then we
talked about digital sovereignity
and we're still discussing about digital
sovereignity. We have given ourselves
the tools. data flows to the United
States if the situation is not adequate
in the United States and I think it is
clearly not anymore could be suspended
and this could be a tool uh which could
be used uh to make the position of
Europe much stronger and um you know in
particular when we are bullied uh uh by
the US government in the way we have
been bullied over the last year.
is super interesting. I was going to ask
you about so again we kind of touched
the topic at the beginning. I was going
to ask again to so before I want to ask
you general questions about your AI
usage and your your final thoughts but
so it's interesting to see that you you
see the connection between data
protection and the protection of uh
fundamental rights as a path to to
sovereigny as well right to democracy
and sovereignty. So it's while you were
speaking so I will ask you but but it's
it's super interesting to to observe
this you this came up various times
while during our conversation. So if you
would say to to to conclude this more
technical legal part of our conversation
what is the which is the title of our
talk to what is the role of data
protection in the age of AI? What what
would you if you would say like in a in
a few words how do would you summarize
that?
Well, I think uh the role of a um data
protection in the age of AI is to
maintain and strengthen in individual
informationational self-determination.
People must be able to control to a
large extent how they are seen by
others. Um and that means um that it is
not acceptable that powerful
organizations whether powerful companies
or the state have huge profiles about
people which they have today with
thousands of parameters um knowing all
their dreams, all their wishes, all
their sexual, religious and political
orientations. While the individual
stands helpless
gets less access rights than in the pre
um AI times um the data should of
individuals should be used as a
legitimate interest to train AI. Why do
companies of AI which produce AI need
personal data? The only explanation is
to target people to target people and to
manipulate them. So the function of data
protection is to maintain the freedom um
and individual determination of people's
self-determination
and this is a requirement and the basis
for our democratic existence. If the
state or powerful interests know
everything about us, we don't know what
they're doing with the data. We don't
know what they know about us and we
don't know what stories they're telling
about us because we don't see the
answers Chad GBT gives to others about
us. Democracy is finished. We cannot
have these huge um collections of data
in the hand of powerful companies or the
state. And this should be um where the
European Commission and data protection
authorities should go. we should do away
with these all-encompassing profiles.
And my hope is that data protection
after this um so-called reform will
still be able to do this. This is a
central court to get rid of these people
profiles.
Then if some things on the margin are
improved, you know, I like uh the
proposals on on the browser settings,
the waiting period, you know, there are
some good elements. Um but um if they
got through fine. There are other
elements like the definition of personal
data and like some of the elements you
mentioned which will weaken protection.
Certainly the legitimate interest to use
AI for to use personal data for AI
training. Absolutely not. I mean you
know first I I would like to understand
why they need personal data and for what
purposes. So um um I would say um the
data protection authorities to finish
with this will for a long time be the
key actors um setting the limits of
injurance into personal lives and
manipulation of people also in relation
to AI.
I don't see that on the basis of the AI
act um the market surveillance
authorities or the commission will
really provide protections for people
the ultimate reason is this at least in
the draft of the European Commission
there was no individual right of action
for people under the AI act so if I see
that a company clearly doesn't comply
with the AI act and it concerns me it
touches my interest. It touches my
rights. Under the AI act, I can only
complain and my complaint according to
the wording of the act is taken into
account. But that's very far away from
the type of protection of rights we need
in the age of AI. In the age of AI, we
need in all these types of laws
including on the AI act accumulation of
three types of protection. First, an
individual right of action. That means
if I complain to the authority
responsible to to enforce the act, I
must have a right that they follow up my
complaint. And if they don't do it, I
must be able to go to court and force
them to follow up. Second, we need a
well- resourced authority which is able
to do the job which has enough staff and
resources including to win in litigation
against these very powerful companies.
And third, we must have in accumulation
to these two uh first options the um the
right of action in the public interest
by qualified non-governmental
organizations. If we don't introduce
this accumulation of enforcement, the
power constellation which we are facing
in reality, yeah, the top 10 companies,
well, let's say five of the top 10
companies in the United States stock
exchange, the richest and highest
capitalized companies in the world, they
are so powerful and we as individuals,
what can we do? Nothing under the AI
act. And that is um let's say also
something where I would wish that if
discussions take place uh in the
European Parliament on a possible
compromise. Well, you know, let's
improve on the individual right of
action. The parliament has gone halfway.
It has already introduced
um an um fundamental rights impact
assessment. I would wish that this
fundamental rights impact assessment is
not limited only to the use of AI in the
public service, but it should be
extended to all large language models
and to all high-risk um um AI and it
should be combined with an individual
right of action whenever individual
rights are conserved. That would be a
reform worthwhile. It would bring the AI
act on the level of GDPR because that's
where we have this triple enforcement.
Anything below below that based on the
proposals of the commission today is a
minus for protection and goes in light
of the technological developments and
also of real time real power
consolations which we face today in the
wrong direction.
>> Great that you mentioned the fundamental
rights impact assessment of assessment.
have also written about that and Philip
Hucker one of the advisors he also wrote
doesn't make sense the the current uh
language of article 27 extremely narrow
no point so great to see that we are
aligned on that too
and now I want to ask a general question
uh about AI before we conclude before
your your final message so two questions
about AI so first do you use AI and if
yes or how how do you think would be a
nice AI use and and two Um, are you
optimistic about the future of AI this
in regardless of omnibus or law, but the
future the the maybe the the next 10
years, the next 20 years? Any any
thoughts on that?
>> Well, first of all, I have always had
the motto um, you know, playful approach
to the digital. I try out everything and
so I use and compare um a lot of um AI
programs
and uh I must say it's it's amazing uh
how the performance has improved over
the last years. Um so um I I think um
you know it's very clear that there are
breakthroughs in at least the type of
performance we see as lay men. Whether
this is scientifically a breakthrough, I
don't know. Um but um yes, I am
fascinated by technology. Am I
optimistic? Well, I would say people
need to engage for democracy. They need
to engage for good laws and this
engagement doesn't end with the voting
every four years. But uh you know civil
society is a good cause and more people
have to engage uh to make sure that we
also in the future live under the
primacy of democratic laws and that we
don't become ruled only by technology
only by the rules which technology set
and for that matter by a combination of
Trump plus these companies or Chinese
government plus their companies. So all
people who want uh to live freely
self-determined silver in the democratic
sense
they now need to engage and politics
needs to understand that this debate
about data protection and AI is not
something which can be left uh to the
technologists and to the experts. Um the
regulation of the internet, the
regulation of personal data, the
regulation of AI is societal policy.
Why? Because there are data everywhere
and AI is as ubiquous as electricity. So
people need to engage. The highest level
of politics needs to take charge and we
have to hold politics accountable for
what they are doing. Now in this very
important moment where we are facing a
combination of political,
financial, technological and military
power in the United States which is a
real threat in many ways to Europe and
European democracy and uh so you know
yes I am optimistic because I know many
people who are ready to engage but it's
crunch time and Um I call also on the
members of the Europe European
Parliament not to abdicate their role
but to take their role on this very very
serious and not just to leave it to this
or that repot. All members of parliament
have a responsibility here and there's a
particular responsibility with the
centrist EP not to succumb to the
temptation to wave things through uh
with the extreme rightwing. That would
be very damaging to democracy in Europe.
It would be damaging to fundamental
rights protection and I think it would
be damaging to the EP itself because if
people see that this is happening, they
will not vote for the AP next time. They
will vote for the originals. And so, um,
I am actually optimistic that the EP
will understand that there's serious
work necessary here together with the
Liberals, with the Greens, and with the
Social Democrats. We need a strong
democratic majority on this, not a tight
result, a strong democratic majority
like we had it when GDPR was adopted.
>> Thank you, Paul. And any final message
you would like to share with the
audience before we conclude.
>> Well, that was the final message.
>> Any any final line that you wanted to
people to remember if they are busy but
they want to think about this
conversation? bystander. Engage in this
debate. Inform yourself. Look at what
the European data protection board says
on the proposals. Look at the excellent
analysis of the omnibus uh by Max
Shremps and NOI already in the second
version. Um
write to your members of parliament
join NOS's. This is a moment of
democratic engagement. The history of
the adoption of GDPR would have been
different if we wouldn't have had this
enormous engagement of civil society. By
the way, also American civil society at
the time we received a lot of letters
and I remember um Jan who was the um
reporter in the parliament. He also
received letter from American civil
society also who said GDPR is also good
for for the American people. So consumer
protection organizations
uh digital rights organizations,
fundamental rights um organizations
uh and also uh political parties which
you know want to take their job of
shaping our life in the future serious.
They now get need to get into this and
um uh you know it's crunch time. Let's
engage and make something good out of
this.
>> Thank you Paul. That was excellent. I'm
super happy you have joined me for this
conversation. Um, that's it. I I hope
everyone in the audience enjoyed and I
see you in the next uh podcast. Bye-bye
everyone.
>> Thank you. Bye-bye.
