Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech, the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as I've said many many many
many times, this is just a group of
students and young professionals who are
very interested in anything that has to
do with technology. And yes, it's
regulation. So guys, um, as always, now
I'm joined by my friend and producer of
this podcast, Jakario. Hi Jako, great to
see you.
>> Hi Rosie. I'm quite permanent now, I
would say.
>> Yeah, I would say you're the only Jako
in the in the game right now. Um, and we
are interviewing someone that, well, I
think most of our listeners probably be
following on on LinkedIn, I have to say.
Uh, great to see you, Fedrico Mareno.
Welcome on the show.
>> Thank you very much, Rosalia. Thank you
very much, Jako, for for the invitation.
I'm very happy I'm very happy to be here
and yeah, let's let's go on. It's such a
pleasure to finally meet you because of
course as I said um at least um bringing
it from my personal experience I do
follow you and I do love your content
when you post something about the AI act
or um AI regulation AI compliance
anything that has to do with data
traction and AI I'm always so hooked by
the level of detail and analysis that
your um very often reports reach. So um
before let we start talking about the
topic of this conversation which will of
course be about AI um let's um give a
bit of a overview of um your life your
career your personal um kind of
development within this kind of field um
tell our listeners why you're here.
>> Okay well uh it was it was for me a a
very long journey as to to be where
where I am right now. Uh to begin with I
am I am from originally from Argentina.
So I studied I studied law. I worked for
many years for the judiciary but then I
moved to I moved to Europe. I studied
the an LM in the UK but then but then
once I started to to to work for
consulting I also studied the PhD uh in
uh in Italy in more precisely in Milano.
So and this is and this is I am I am
based near near Milano right now. So and
and my uh in my in my professional in my
professional lives I I I try to merge
both the work from consulting. So which
is a more practical uh more practical
approach to to things and also more the
more theoretical uh background which
which was mostly provided by my by my
PhD and also the interconnection between
p between uh practice and also uh
academia and and this is where I studied
the the inter intersection between
privacy and AI. uh of course five six uh
20 2018 2019 uh AI was was a relatively
niche topic. So uh and the and the trend
was mostly uh privacy data protection.
So 20 2018 the the the GDPR was starting
to to to kick off. So uh most
organization were willing to incorporate
uh and to update their privacy programs.
So there were there was there there was
many opportunities at this front but but
and but and but and but and but and but
and but and but and but and but and but
and and then over over time uh we've
seen how automation and how uh a system
kicked really kicked out. So uh over
time I was even if I I started being
engaged as a consultant both in privacy
as a DPO uh and also as an external
privacy resource I also uh got more and
more engaged in AI in AI related
engagement as of and
up until up until 2014 2014 where when I
moved to as as an internal resource so I
I I I led the AI governance program at
Informa. Informa is is is the largest
B2B event producer. So we we manage the
we in my in my role in my capacity I I I
was uh responsible for designing
building and rolling out of course with
with the with the with the support of
other stakeholders but but it was my my
my core responsibility to to to lead
this task. Um but so so it was a it was
a great experience but now and now I I I
finally moved moved back to my previous
consulting work uh work but now as as a
head of AI governance so and and now
basically what I what I am doing is I'm
supporting clients uh on the
implementation of their AI governance uh
programs both in the preparation for the
EUI act and and then we can discuss um a
lot about the AI act but mostly But
mostly preparing or setting the
groundwork for
enabling the AI adoption. This is this
is the core the core work and and also
and also uh we are developing an
internal tool for for practitioners
which is called protect but but in in
this tool we we try to support
practitioners and also companies to uh
to govern AI but also other fields like
privacy and security. So this is this is
in in a nutshell my my my journey and
where where I am and and I occasionally
uh publish uh things in in linkadine. I
I like to be uh updated and and then
it's a good exercise for me because I it
forces me to to go through the topics
and and and read them and and then yeah
doing some doing some work on this front
>> and that's indeed a long journey uh
spanning from different firms and
different roles. So uh setting the
ground for the a more specific
discussion on the AI act. I wanted to
ask you since your background is a is a
very rich background. What do you think
like uh what are the greatest challenges
on AI governance right now? What do do
you think are the greatest challenges at
the moment?
>> For uh for companies you you mean the
greatest challenges for for for
companies?
>> I would say that it basically depends on
the company. It depends on the level of
maturity. It depends. It depends on many
factors but I would say that across the
board one
one key challenge one key challenge is
to is to ensure that adoption goes in
hand with uh with responsible adoption
or with with setting setting the
safeguards at at the same time. So there
is a uh there is a there is a very very
big push in every every company every
company is interested in in fostering
adoption in enabling adoption in in
trying to increase productivity by using
AI or any automated means we've seen
some years ago or two years ago when
when chipd came to the scene it was
mostly generative AI then it started to
be more images or or more diverse media
generation. Now we are in the era of
agentic AI or or
AI that can not only generate content
but but but also take actions and and
and and the and the one of the
challenges that I see and this is across
the board is that every company is
interested in enabling adoption but one
of the key issues is that they don't on
the one hand they don't fully understand
how this how this technology fully work
and then when when you don't understand
how this fully work you don't what how
to plan this and and how to enable this
adoption. So and and this is what we try
to do with with organization knowing
knowing what what they are what they are
they their pain points uh understanding
their usage and also see how this can be
used in a manner that don't don't create
greater great great risk for for for
these organizations.
Um, what is the role of the legal
professional in this adoption
operations? Because I feel like many
organizations would kind of I would say
scare away from actually talking to the
lawyer of the situation sometimes being
like if I really have to call them I
will contact them. Sometimes very often
it's too late when that moment happens.
Um, how do you see your role in this?
How do you um kind of um help the client
understand your position and your area
of expertise? And for example, how do
you help maybe the engineer understand
why you're there?
>> U well this is this is a good question
and the role of the legal professional
again it varies with with the different
with different type of of use cases. Um
right uh I I think that for for for
legal professional we need to be more
pragmatic. Uh try to see that the
regardless of what we say they are going
to adopt the the tool or they are going
to develop the so so the it is a risk
mitigation strategy. Um we are we are
not we we should not engage in
theoretical discussions. we need to we
need to see what is the less risky what
is their less risk uh action that they
can take using the the using the
technology. So I think that for us we
need to bear in mind that we need to be
practicals and and we need to be uh
focused on the real real risk
differently from from those theoretical
that we can see uh either from the books
or or or in discussions high level
discussions.
Um and in in this light of course um the
law kind of steps in if you think about
it because yes we have like these
discussions and like this kind of like
desire to be practical and then of
course the legislator sets boundaries to
this practicalities and the law kind of
becomes one of the factors to consider
one that perhaps without legislation we
wouldn't have to put in straight away if
you think about it. Um so we are seeing
the European Union moving in a specific
direction. It's not the only country in
the world. We know that South Korea also
has implemented and enforced an act that
looks kind like has some points in
>> can be similar to the air act in some
cases. So um from your perspective how
are companies
viewing the air act? Is it all bad
press? Do they actually think that some
parts of it can be useful for the
adoption of AI tools? And how do you
kind of present the AI act as being
something that can be also deployed
rather than just um scared away from?
>> Yeah. Well, I guess that I I and I
receive a lot of a lot of questions or
or or inquiries in relation to the EUA
act. The first thing that we need to uh
highlight is that the EUA act or most of
the companies will not be greatly
affected by the EUA act. We know for for
for context the UA act establishes a a
risk a risk taring where there are
prohibited
prohibited system that cannot be used
high-risk system which are which are uh
heavily regulated and then there are
there are a very very very large chunk
of AI systems that that are barely
regulated but but there are very very
little regulation that
um for the for most of the companies the
core of the EUA act will not be
applicable because the core of the EUA
act is targeted to providers of hybrid
scale systems.
uh this is this is the first thing that
that that companies need to be aware of
uh and also in relation to to the
discussion that we have uh now that it
is likely that the UA act will be
postponed or or the the the application
of certain provisions of the UA act will
be postponed. It it is it is definitely
some relief. It is definitely relief for
these companies that will be targeted or
will be impacted by as as as providers
of hypers scale systems. But in general,
I think that in general, in general,
companies can find
can find
usefulness of this uh of this regulation
in the sense that there is a clear there
is a clear requirement of increasing the
AI literacy, increasing the fluency. So,
and this is and and this is something
that companies should consider
regardless of the legal obligation
because enabling enabling employees or
upskilling employees is something that
it will bring it will bring benefits
long term for for the organizations. Um
and also and also important to highlight
that it is not only the EUA act even if
we are in Europe we are concerned by the
the impact of this of this regulation
but many companies companies operates
globally or or at least the companies
that that we we use company companies
that usually have
funds to to operate globally and they
need to consider laws globally. You
mentioned you mentioned before Korea but
there are in the US there are
dozens or many many many law even if
they are not general laws on AI these
are very specific laws targeting either
data protection biometric data employee
relationship or fair fair housing so for
for for
AI or for lawyer prof for for lawyers we
need to be mindful of this uh global
aspect know that the reg regulations are
all over the world uh starting to to to
be enacted and keep uh keep track keep
track of these regulations. Uh
fortunately now we have also
AI assistance to to to support with the
with our with our with our work but but
still it is a it is an it is an
additional effort that we need to to put
on our side as well.
You you mentioned the digital omnibus
and I would like to focus uh a bit more
on how it was born, how it was fought uh
from the European Commission because uh
once I I spoke with a vice president of
an Italian association uh for uh it
doesn't matter for their their work but
they're working in the digital field,
digital policy field and what struck me
was that they were mentioning the fact
that for them the European companies
didn't push to have a digital omnibus
but it was just the American companies.
So that was like a sort of dependency.
Do you think that this like this thing
is true or is partially true or is
totally like not true?
Well, lobbying lobbying lobbying is
lobbying is part of the of the legal of
the of the of the legal process. So of
the of the process of of creating laws.
So so I I I I wouldn't be surprised if
uh if in addition to to European uh to
European
stakeholders, they might have they might
be stakeholders from from overseas. Um
but but but regardless of I I think that
regardless of the of who who was the
main who was the main driver of these of
these reforms the importance the
important is that it will bring uh it
will bring companies uh relief uh to
their to their operations.
There were there were many things that
as of now these are not clear. For
instance, uh we we see we see right now
when when we try to when we try to to
support organizations, we have
definitions of of AI, but still some
sometimes it is not it is not easy to f
to to to to determine or to to to
assertain whether a system uh fits or
not within the within the definition. So
and and and and this postponing will
will also will also help the
the work of of other uh for instance um
standardization bodies to to create the
set of standard that will also provide
more guidance and more support to the h
to the EUAC. So I I kind of I tend to I
I agree with the with the with this
postponing companies companies in
general are not ready for the for the EU
AI act at least for at least those those
who are uh strictly impacted by this in
particular the the providers of
high-risk assistance at least at least
from from from what I've seen from what
I've seen out there. So we need also
more more guidance more concrete
standardization efforts and and and and
more uh clarity on who will supervise
who what will be the role of of of the
other of of the authorities. We've seen
we've seen many locally some of the some
of the authorities have been appointed
but not not not every authority has been
appointed. So and if nothing changes in
three in four months we should have we
should have the whole the whole
governance structure ready which I
really doubt that this will be the case.
>> We will break the news with you Federico
because uh apparently literally a couple
of hours ago the the parliament has
voted for the postponement of uh the
core part of the UA act. So we will wait
until uh December 2027 for uh annex 3
systems and August 2028 for annex one AI
systems um classified as high risk. So
yeah just just giving the news to the
the audience that would listen. Um, one
one crucial question that I want to ask
you is as you said you've been working
with AI adoption, I mean basically since
2019 you said and that's that was quite
early on and I was wondering yes a lot
of companies clearly stressed about the
EUA act because that's a new thing
that's coming up but do you think that
companies are fit for complying with all
the other legislation that is in place
and currently enforceable in the in the
European Union. Um, and I'm also
referring specifically to the GDPR
because we know that AI uses a lot of
data of course and um, some of it is
personal, some of it is copyrighted. Um,
how how do you um, kind of help
companies understanding the importance
of compliance with GDPR and and similar
regulations?
Well, this this is a this is an
interesting one because
it is uh GDPR is is indeed a very taxing
a very taxing regime for for
organizations.
Um there are from what I from my
experience there are different different
levels of of compliance.
It is difficult to say whether companies
are fully compliant. I would really
doubt I would really doubt any claim of
full full compliance with with any with
any with any regulation. We know that
there is a there is a there is a degree
of of of compliance. So, but but I think
that the I think that for company for
companies
um
some some some companies or some some
stakeholders in in the different
companies, some of them are really
worried about the possibility of being
fined or the possibility of being
subject of
pro procedures or or investigations.
But this is but this is if we if we if
we see the statistically is is very the
the the probability or the likelihood is
very low. Uh I think that most of the
companies most of the companies nowadays
in particular those who work in the B2B
sector we have many clients working in
the in the B2B sector. So most of the
companies
are uh more comfortable when they when
they implement these uh these safeguards
or or when they they try to be as
compliant as possible when they try to
sell their products to to to to their
customers. So many times they are are
the customers of the company who imposes
the the the compliance requirements
instead of the the fear of being subject
of of a of an administrative
investigation.
Data protection authorities have very
limited resources and they cannot go
outside and and make audits to to to all
the companies that we see out there. So
I think that on the one hand customers
for for for for large or B2B companies
and on the other hand trust I think that
there are some examples we we we often
see or we often site Apple that was one
of the one of the companies that build
their brand on on the on the matter of
trust on privacy privacy. So there are
some there are some sectors or some
companies which are which are more
familiar with this concept of of of
trust. Um but but but there are a m
multiplicity of factors that can be uh
that can be that can play a role in this
uh in in in into compliance. But as as a
as a summary I really I really doubt any
company or any organization private or
public uh claiming to be fully fully
compliant.
And talking about data, we did spoke
briefly about personal data of course by
tiding to the GDPR, but um companies
also require a huge amount of um
security and protection when it comes to
confidential data. And I was wondering
um from from your personal experience,
how do you deal with something that's
called shadow AI use? So like companies
adopting products but then um they're
kind of employees using other products
that are not a company compliant. How do
you um kind of confront that issue?
>> Uh well this this is a this is also this
is also a question that we often we
often have because shadow shadow shadow
AI is a is a derivation of shadow it
shadow it existed since since we have
systems. So shadow I is the is uh is the
use of IT systems or or or or vendors or
suppliers that are not legal that are
not regularized or that are not subject
to a to a specific procurement process.
The same happens with AI and all the
more when when when we have as of now a
mushrooming we have AI tools all over
the world different different tools
appearing every single day. So, and this
is this is something really really
difficult for companies to to tackle
because you have you have of course the
the traditional or the regular
procurement process in general when when
someone needs when someone need have a
need for for a tool they can ask for for
procurement or or the the stakeholder
but this is something that with free
tools that are available right now we
can name it JPT DC cloven so there are
thousand of of
it is
extremely difficult for companies to
keep pace. So there are different
strategies that companies are are
adopting some of these and and the I
would say that the most effective the
most effective ones are technical. So,
so you have technical organizational
measures. The technical I tend to think
that these are the in this case the more
effective techni and by technical I mean
using network scans to to to see what is
the usage of of AI tools and then say
and then determine which tools if any
should be blocked. So you you have no
longer access.
uh but also you have organizational
organizational measures and
organizational measures training and
aware raising awareness is is one of
these. So uh developing training
campaigns and and developing a training
program for for employees
helps uh we cannot say that it will
completely eliminate but it helps this
this issue or at least it reduces it can
reduce
to different degrees the the information
that they that they put or the or the
the actions that they take with these
with these tools. We we we we
increasingly see that these tools are
increasingly uh powerful. Uh as of two
years ago, we we were only able to to to
generate text. Now there are aentic AI
tools that we can directly uh take
actions and by taking action every
single action that the that the that the
the the
tool or the agent may be able to do. for
instance internal actions within within
your device but also external using
using your mailbox your your
communication channels. So it is and and
this is why it's important to to to
raise awareness on the first hand but
also when when awareness is not
sufficient going to technical means is
is the most appropriate.
We had talked about these rules. Uh a
more general question will be about the
enforcement since you you are on the on
the other side of these policy makers.
Do you think uh from your uh experience
that do you think it would be better to
like centralized or uh put the
enforcement at the European level or it
should be more nationally driven model
uh for reasons like uh proximity or
democratic accountability? Do you think
there is a uh there is a way that is
better or a mix could be like the best
way?
>> Yeah. Um this is a this is also a
challenging question because I tend to
think that national that implementation
the implementation the the enforcement
at national level
uh
is the right. So the and we take as as
example G GDPR because it is the the the
the
regime we are more we are more familiar
with. Uh I I think it works. Of course
there are some there are always some uh
problems and discussions when when the
the informance when when the enforcement
needs to be coordinated or when the
enforcement needs to be uh super
national.
But still there needs to be one lead
authority taking the taking the
investigation and then the others can
can support
um but yeah
AI or data protection is does not happen
in a single country. So the strategies
and every every enforcement action
should also consider this fact uh as
well. So it it is is very limited the
I I would say that I don't have I don't
have statistics but but but I tend to
think that the majority of the cases are
transnational and even if it might be
focalized in one one jurisdiction the
the the effects are also expanded across
across the across other countries.
I'm going to ask you a potentially mean
question but um you know just bear with
me a second. Um you know AI can be
useful of course and um and its adoption
um has been seen as improving
productivity. However, there have also
been studies that show that you know
productivity vise across sectors and not
all sectors actually benefit from um
deploying AI. Not to mention that there
is a kind of loss to personal
professionalism when it comes to the
people that were usually doing that kind
of task. So they've measured for example
I think it was an MIT study that
measured um radiologists in hospitals. A
lot of um hospitals use um AI for
radiology purposes because these are the
best AI tools you can find basically um
and they um they are losing their
expertise in the specific sector. So I'm
wondering when it when a company comes
to you and tells you um I want to adopt
AI, what do I do now?
Is there any chance that you may tell
them like maybe it's more expensive for
you to adopt AI than actually what you
be what you would be gaining from it or
is for example possible that you would
say don't get this very expensive tool
you can get a smaller model for example
that gives you the same level of results
but is much less expensive or is much
less um in breed shop data for example
data protection or confidence
potentiality.
>> Well, yes. I I think so many I think
that there are there are many things in
in in this question. So on the on the
nature or on the evolution of work, I
think that we will see we will see in
the next next couple of years many
changes uh for good or for bad there
will be there will be changes. uh all of
us will be affected by this. Um
and and and again there will be
professions, sectors and and and
seniority levels that will be affected
differently but but but I think that we
all be we all be impacted by by by this.
This this is more more more on a generic
on a generic nature on company specific
of course when whenever whenever we have
the information we we I I don't I I
don't have information about or or
expertise in in every single model or or
or or how or how expensive or or
economically the adoption of specific
strategies for for these are more more
technical roles or more
rows with more hands-on expertise on on
AI, but it's definitely true that there
are strategies that can make some tools
more expensive than others. So and
whenever we have whenever we have the
chance we we also advise on on this but
but we we try to be we try to be in
particular in this field where models
changes mod model change is is something
very that happens very regularly. Uh
prices depend on on different on
different uh factors. uh
but on in in a nutshell yes we we we
advise on what are the strategies that
can uh make make work better but at the
same time we try to be cautious on on on
how to advice on on on costs and and and
it is true
sometimes
the use of AI creates more problems that
that it solves and the problem that we
see we see on on a daily basis when when
people just automate their their
processes and you you just don't control
what is what is AI producing and then
the chain of control within this
within within the work you you don't you
don't know who is who's responsible for
so
yeah we we we also need we need to be
mindful of these of these challenges and
and try to try to operate accordingly
>> and and before we let you
The last question I promise um in terms
of let's say not 10 years in the future
because that's absolutely impossible to
know
>> that's too long maybe one two years
let's let's give it a shorter break
>> um what kind of innovations slash
technologies slash um workflow system do
you see as being potentially something
that we would be looking at as
potentially good for companies,
something that may really help companies
thrive better. And with companies, I
also would like for you to give a
specific focus on the companies that are
very very um kind of radicated here in
the European Union. So, let's think
aboutmemes for example.
Um
well I I I tend to think that
that right now right now we we starting
to see um we we are starting to see how
AI can transform and and we we are
starting to see the the beginning so the
beginning of automation we've seen that
we've seen that with generative AI in
general there was a there was a massive
change uh and let's call them for the
sake of simplicity productivity gain
then we can discuss a lot on whether
these productivity gains actually
took place or not.
But but what I what I tend to think and
this is pure erh pure assumptions and
pure speculation
is that we will see we will see higher
level of adoption and more more specific
for one more specific tools working
working in in specific sectors.
For instance, now right now we have uh
cloud cowork which is the the the
agentic AI per excellent and open and
and available for to to every single
user or company for for a relative and
it's relatively inexpensive
but I think that in in the in this in
the in the near future we will see more
specific aenti tools that will allow us
to automate this tedious use uh time
consuming tasks and we we can we can be
more productive and living leaving
living leaving living our creativity
living leaving living leaving living
leaving living leaving living leaving
living leaving living leaving living
leaving living leaving living leaving
leaving living leaving living leaving
living leaving living leaving living
leaving living leaving living leaving
living leaving living leaving living
leaving living leaving our uh special
part of human being for more value
creative activities. So I I tend to
think that that I tend to think that in
the in the next couple of years we will
see a specialization of these of these
tools and then we we can also free time
for for us
but but still but still I would like to
I would like to conclude it will it'll
remain to be seen because yeah we we
don't know what will what will be the
path I think that there there is also
need to be seen
>> the advanc the advances in robotics we
have seen little so as of now we we've
seen only
advances in in generative AI or or even
we see the an incipient agentic AI but
we haven't seen very very little in
robotics. So I I expect that in the
future robotics will also uh takes off
with with the with improvement of visual
models and on models and and and the and
and using merging
artificial intelligence with with
physical devices. So and we will see
this in in the future.
>> Yeah, world models sound like a very
cool thing. I was um looking into that a
couple of days ago and I was thinking,
oh my gosh, like these things have
figured out. It's like they're learning
a lot of information and really like
understand where your space is and and
and what's around you, what's the
surroundings, they will be incredible in
robotics. And I really do hope that
robotics gets developed because, you
know, there are lots of people that
really struggle in daily life. Um maybe
with like a bit more kind of helpful
robotics um also some tasks can become
better. Let's not forget that there are
workers in factories and stuff maybe
that's a better use than you know PT.
>> Yeah. and and there will be a massive
job displacement as well. But but but we
will see we will see some some some some
works some some jobs will be changed
some work will be will evolve some
others we we will see what would what
the future will be. Yeah, it's um we
live in interesting times, let's say.
So,
>> yeah, absolutely.
>> Absolutely.
>> Thank you so much, Federico, for joining
us on the podcast. It was such a
pleasure to finally meet you and and
listen to you speaking. It was
incredible. You you are um you you have
given us not only an overview, but
really like a feel of what your job is
and it was incredible to talk to you.
>> Thank you. Thank you very much Rosalia
and Jako for for the invitation. and I'm
very pleased to to be here and continue
continue with this amazing initiative
that I I really like it. So yeah, I hope
I hope it was useful and let's stay in
touch. Thank you. Thank you very much
again.
>> Absolutely. And thank you Jacob.
>> Thank you Rosie. Thank you for the
legal.
>> Thank you. And this was all for the
legal for tech the podcast.
This episode was brought to you in
partnership with DG Beetle.
DJ Beetle helps privacy professionals to
stay up to date with the most important
European documents in the AI data and
digital space every day. Curious to know
more? Check out the link in our show
notes.
