Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech, the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as you've said many many many
times this is just a group for students
and young professionals who are very
interested in anything that has to do
with technology and yes it's regulation.
So today I'm joined by my friend and
great producer of this podcast. Hi Jako,
great to see you.
>> Hi Rosie, very happy to be here and
welcome back from Milan.
>> Oh thank you. I'm actually missing the
weather. I'm back in Germany and
actually I have to say I think someone
in this podcast is in a worse situation
than me and definitely than you. Great
to to join you and uh you to join us on
this podcast. Marco Bassini who's
calling us from Tilberg which is
definitely a bit gray today I'm told.
>> Thank you both for inviting me. It's a
pleasure being here and uh good good
afternoon everyone.
>> Good afternoon. Um, I have to say it's a
pleasure to finally talk to someone from
who's who's Italian but is an expert
like both of us basically. This is
Professor Mark Bassini. He's a professor
at the University of Tilber. And today
he's here to talk about the yes the
European framework, the legal framework
that we have been talking about
basically um on the whole of this
podcast, but also um he's a specialist
in constitutional law. So, um, before we
start and we head off with the actual
topic of this podcast, tell us something
about yourself, Marco, um, explain to us
why you're here today.
I think I'm here because I have an
expertise on digital regulation and
what's happening now in the EU in
particular concerning some very
important technologies such as AI. Uh,
but my career uh, led me to Tilberg
University. I joined Tber University in
2023. So 3 years ago after conducting
research in Italy, I got my PhD in
constitutional and European law which
was very helpful because gave me a
background on human rights in particular
both from a national and international
perspective to look at what happens uh
in digital technologies and how digital
regulation may affect or protect human
rights which is of course the core of my
research and also something I'm really
interested in. So I have been walking in
Italy for a while at Wakoney University
which is also my alma mater and uh then
I I joined Tilberg University which is a
very nice environment at the Tilber un
institute for law technology and society
where I am now uh assistant professor of
fundamental rights and AI which is quite
a combination.
We we want immediately to dive deeper
into uh the topics but first of all I
would like to ask you to if you could
talk a little bit about the the article
that you wrote that is called if I'm not
wrote better law making and evaluation
for the digital rule book if you can
tell us a little bit about it and from
there we can
>> yeah it's an article I with Marisa
Mulino and Alexander Stel um a few
months ago now I think one year almost
and It's basically um an article where
we try to look at what's happening in
the U law making when it comes in
particular to digital law and digital
regulation just because we know that
there are a lot of calls for
better incorporation of the better
regulation principles into U law. um you
know the better regulation principles
are very important uh in respect of the
way the you uh law is made and uh um
what we were looking at is basically the
life cycle let's say of regulation in
the digital sphere so we chose to focus
on three acts in particular the DMA the
DSA uh and the GDPR but similar efforts
can be definitely reproduced and and put
into other acts just to understand you
know what was the mindset of the
European Commission in particular at the
time they delivered their proposal and
what changed over the legislative
process and what can we suggest uh the
you lawmakers um to do if they want to
improve the quality of legislation in EU
in particular in U digital law and if
compliance with the better regulation
principles uh can be improved and they
want to improve it of course Because uh
this is an article where we wanted to
look for example at impact assessment
the way impact assessment were
conducted. And of course after some
years you have the chance to see whether
uh the predictions that they made and
the the impacts that they were assessing
actually are uh consistent with the
state of the art or maybe something
changed or maybe some costs in terms of
compliance for example were
underestimated or overestimated. This is
quite you know similar to the effort
that we can now put maybe in exploring
what's happening with the digital
omnibus um because we want to understand
it actually we had some cost to reduce
to cuts and um in a certain way to frame
and shape you law can help in that
perspective. Of course, we have broader
goals here which is the goal of digital
competitiveness and fostering this
competitiveness which is of course
another important aspect we will I'm
pretty sure talk about now. But um yeah
the article was a quite interesting uh
experience because it gave us a chance
to look back uh to look let's say also
uh ahead for for what's happening and
what's what's what's in front of us and
the new challenges we're facing now in
new digital regulation.
Wow. I have to say that the way you
described this life cycle um definitely
reminded me of this um series of
paintings by a clim this kind of idea
that the the child then the mother than
the older person. Um I'm wondering is
the digital omnibus the elderly time of
something like the GDPR and in general
the digital framework of the European
Union or would you describe it as a
different time and age?
>> I don't know actually. It's a very tough
question because I there are different
angles from which we can look at the
digital omnibus and uh of course we can
also make some distinctions between the
uh digital omnibus concerning data
protection and data law let's say and
the digital omnibus on AI where I think
there might be some interesting
divergences uh or convergences let's say
depending on the way I look at them And
um I am I'm I fail uh to to have a clear
view of what the digital omnibus is
right now because
maybe this part of the nature of omnibus
uh packages. So the fact that they are
uh uh everything and nothing at the same
time. So they basically include many
very specific provisions but they maybe
change very important aspects and
details such as the definition and the
notion of personal data. So you don't
get to understand if if it's a new phase
they are opening up new phase in new
digital regulation or maybe they are
trying to revise and and and recalibrate
and fine-tune the legislation. uh maybe
in some particular respects the omnibus
plan to be very innovative while in
others domain other domains this is not
uh and and honestly speaking looking at
certain provisions I guess sometimes
it's a kind of makiage so it's just uh
rephrasing some provisions u maybe with
unintended consequences I can exclude
that uh but in other respects it might
be more innovative so um honestly
speaking I don't know I will answer your
question also because of the important
uh political and economic goals uh
behind this uh this project. Honestly
speaking, we can't um we can't read the
uh omnibus and we can't interpret the
omnibus without bearing in mind and and
properly understanding it without
bearing in mind which are these goals
and and and and the role they play and
they played in the in the law making.
And since you've been um kind of hinting
to them, let's let's talk about these
roles. Let's talk about this new kind of
um goal behind the digital omnibus. Is
it a new goal in the first place? I'm um
wondering. And secondly, um is this
really where we're heading? Is this
really the European Union we were
looking at and we were waiting for
10 years ago when the GDPR first um got
u passed by the parliament.
>> Yeah. Let's say that there are very
interesting changes in uh in in in the
GDPR but also in other uh pieces of
legislation. Um and as I said before
it's quite difficult to me honestly get
a kind of overall u assessment and view
of the many changes. uh but I will say
that that this is a clearly uh
politically driven uh initiative which
in my view makes sense in the end
because law is inherently political in
the end. So we are always talking about
political priorities that may emerge in
particular phases and we know very well
that maybe it was Mario Draggy's call u
maybe it was even before uh let us
report call um but we know that there is
a you know a urge for fostering
competitiveness in the European digital
economy and we know for sure that
because we can definitely notice that in
the global scenario uh the European
digital economy of course is not um
leading and there are other of course
jurisdictions um the US and China but
also India, Brazil and some some some
countries where uh in respect of
technology there are very interesting
developments that might of course have
an impact also on the European economy.
So I understand that now uh regulators
are looking at this goal. Um now I will
maybe frame in a more legal terms what I
see now in this process. But just just
let me say I feel that it makes sense
that sometimes regulators change their
view. It's not only a matter of changing
their agenda. It's a matter of
understanding what's going on.
Understanding that maybe something has
to be done and trying to find some
possible solutions. The question of
course is whether these solutions are
compatible
both with the way we understand
fundamental rights because as you said
we have a quite clear understanding of
data protection is for example in the
US. So now it's a bit puzzling that some
very important part of the omnibus are
changing maybe this view this
understanding. Um but at the same time
we also know that u the understanding of
data protection has in many way been
driven by the court of justice for
example interpreting it broadly and uh
uh it is not an absolute right. So there
might be circumstances under which there
is a balance and and and and as I said
lawmakers can change their mind uh
regulators can change their mind. This
means that maybe the balance that they
found before can change can evolve. Um
this is also the reason why we have
constitutions and super national uh
treaties covenants like the charter of
fundamental rights of the EU or the
convention because we want the balance
for example between different
fundamental rights to not deprive any of
this right of their essence. We don't
want a right to be let's say abusive of
other. So we we want to preserve you
know all the rights. But this doesn't
mean that fundamental rights are
absolute. And of course there is a
separate point we should discuss which
is also a point that I leave to you then
later for discussion u whether the
omnibus is actually weakening
uh fundamental rights and particularly
in the in respect of data protection
which is something we can discuss
because if we look at the specific
provisions maybe uh some believe that
it's really u worrying and some have a
lot of concerns um others believe that
it's it's not uh that concerning and uh
maybe it's a new setting that uh might
be helpful for other uh to pursue other
goals.
Before before discussing like uh this
thing uh you talk about the importance
of u the dragon letter report in
initiating this digital omnibus. Do do
you think that also there was a sort of
political pressure coming from the other
side of the Atlantic uh from the Trump
administration and of course from the uh
American digital companies or do you
think there was a right balance with
Europe where also European companies
were pushing for a sort of
simplification
but let's say I can't exclude that in a
way this is also the result of a kind of
factual assessment that we don't have a
European an unionbased big tech
comparable to the big tech companies
that we have in the United States. This
is I think quite easy to to see. Um and
of course uh when it comes to lobbying
in in digital regulation of course some
pressure of course may derive from uh
big tech u but uh I think that we have
to consider two uh aspects. First of
all, uh we are talking about
simplification and u simplification uh
should be something we uh try to pursue
in particular with respect to small and
medium enterprises which should be the
real target. We can discuss of course if
this is something that the omnibus will
achieve because apparently some of the
changes in the GDPR in particular but
also in the AI act will be in a way
beneficial most notably for uh big
platforms big companies. So maybe we
should see whether uh the omnibus will
deliver uh in this particular respect.
But the second point that I want to
address and highlight is um let's let's
take a step back and you you you
mentioned the political dimension which
is really important here. I think that
the the point of competitiveness emerged
in the political uh agenda of the EU
recently in particular with respect to
digital law and it's a very important
one. Um I and also you know as a lawyer
I tend to distinguish this concept from
the the idea of competition because um
if you if you you can translate
competitiveness and competition in very
different ways in in your own language
for example in Italian that's very
different you know concurrenza versus um
competitivita so it's very telling uh
what competitiveness is but it's really
difficult to capture it into a very
legal notions because there is no legal
notion so Maybe it's more innovation.
Let's say we can say we want more
innovation. And however, this is, you
know, another factual assessment. Uh
because we need to unlock opportunities.
We we need to unlock growth um in in the
EU. And how do you do so? How do you get
to uh obtain a more uh business
dynamism? For example, u reducing for
example costs including maybe cost for
compliance. So it's also a matter of uh
industrial policy in a way which is
something of course I'm not an expert
but um I think that of course there
might be some pressure there might have
been some type pressure in a way and and
and I can't exclude that the urge for
competitiveness is something may derive
from the uh importance on the market of
certain companies which are not based
per se. Um but you know I I can see this
also you know if you think about 10
years ago 15 years ago I think the the
EU managed to set a threshold when the
GDPR came into force it it codified a
very important message for no newbased
companies which already the court of
justice made in its case law which is
the idea you want to make money out of
your relationship with business
relationship with European residents
that's fine you want to target them for
say for the sale of goods or for the
provision of services or for monitoring
the commercial behavior that's fine but
you have to abide by the U legal system
and you have to comply with the GDPR. So
even if you are not based in the EU but
you're taking advantage of digital
technology to reach uh consumers in the
U for example then you uh then you need
to stick and I think this is a very
important message at the time. So I
think that you managed to set the
threshold the and also with the AI act
in a way we found a way to
um give the sense of what uh we mean by
data protection and other uh values that
uh we have when it comes to innovation
governance. The point is have we gone
too far in that uh approach? have we
maybe put some uh unintended constraints
on the U digital economy? Um and and
this is the way I see uh this. So we
need we need to understand how we can as
I said unlock opportunities in terms of
business and attract investments and
make huge digit because we shouldn't
forget that what makes our life in in
the U in the member states where we live
now um quite one maybe about the life we
enjoy and we have business
opportunities. We were talking about
where we live and and what kind of
opportunities we have in the job market.
We need economic growth. We need of
course that Europe is performing and I'm
sorry this may sound a bit business not
very legal. Uh but in the end you know
uh this is what makes you competitive.
So um I am a lawyer and of course I'm
very sensitive to human rights
protection. So I don't want that we
trade uh data protection for uh more uh
business just to be clear. That would be
very bad. But I'm just wondering whether
we can do something in order to preserve
uh a decent level of protection of
fundamental rights which is our DNA in
particular data protection at the same
time um becoming a bit more attractive
because my feeling is that sometimes uh
we are complicating a bit too much the
the framework and and regulation in
particular.
Well, um, and I I think all of our
listeners will appreciate that, you
know, the fundamental the charter of
fundamental rights in the European Union
also includes a right to business, a
right to property, a right to life. And
if we think that, you know, economic uh
wealth is also a way to ensure that life
um maybe we need to consider how we
balance out those rights. And this is
something you were talking about a tiny
bit earlier and because I'm a lawyer in
this podcast um uh because Jak was
studied as our listeners know something
a bit more to do with politics. I will
ask you about the fundamental rights
that you mentioned. Um I think it's very
important to maybe just um make take a
step back and remind our listeners
especially the ones that are not based
in Europe um how the system of
fundamental rights works here. You said
the rights are not absolute. Um they are
in a way proportional to each other.
They have to be balanced out. um as you
mentioned um and in that light explain
how the right to data protection has
been viewed until now and why something
that the digital omnibus potentially
undermines that right to a threshold and
to a level that's absolutely below what
we've been um saying in the past and and
up until now.
>> Yeah. Let's let's say that the right to
data protection has been defined by some
scholars as the Europe first amendments.
Uh which is quite telling uh because in
the US for example uh the first
amendment protects freedom of speech in
a quite absolute way. It's not absolute
uh indeed but it's it's very broad and
and comparably it's definitely broader
than the protection that other rights
enjoy under the bill of rights in the US
constitution. Um and this is also you
know something that shaped the US legal
system because uh freedom of speech is
almost everywhere. Sometimes we may feel
that it's too much also. Of course in
Europe we have a very different u view.
So um we tend to see maybe the US to
overestimate uh freedom of expression
and and and also recently the US Supreme
Court delivered very important judgments
that are discussing for example whether
online platforms social network
platforms enjoy themselves free speech
rights which is quite telling it's uh
it's the way the debate has been going
and maybe that's also one of the reason
why the US managed to have so many tech
companies and and it's also this
cultural roots that uh we can see but in
Europe we have a let's say a a bit
slightly different approach in the sense
that as I said before uh the idea that
except for human dignity of course
fundamental rights um uh generally do
not enjoy absolute protection and there
might be circumstances under which uh
lawmakers in particular have to strike a
balance between competing rights.
Sometimes we need to limit individual uh
personal freedom because uh we need to
protect people uh from possible threats
uh to public order. So if you commit a
crime, you will definitely face jail and
imprisonment is a deprivation of your
personal liberty but is something uh
that's for the sake of collective uh
safety let's say. So it's an example of
the way we may may balance different
expectations and this is also something
we see in in in Europe in respect of the
right to data protection which is of
course a right that um we um understand
in very broad terms also because of the
approach of the court of justice of the
European Union that uh I will say
starting
I would say 10 years ago 12 years ago
with maybe one of the most uh landmark
cases. Google Spain um released many
judgments were it uh valued that uh
rights and uh I would say
operationalized in a very broad way the
application of the right to data
protection in digital uh in the digital
field in particular. Um there are many
judgments. Uh we can also recall for
example um the data retention saga which
is a very important series of judgments
deliver on the retention of personal
data. Um and uh we have other important
judgments regarding also the
relationship with the US legal system
regarding the transfer to to countries
or countries that are outside the union
so they are not subject to the GDPR and
accordingly protect that right in a
different way uh with a different degree
of protection. So what we do what do we
do in this under the circumstances? So
let's say that um maybe also the
interpretation of data protection has
been driven by the court of justice. Um,
and this is also in a way compatible
with the idea that it's up to lawmakers
to balance rates and it's up to courts
to determine whether that balance is
reasoning is reason is reasonable and um
does not for example disproportionately
affect competing rights and does not
deprive other rights uh of diescent.
This is something that we can find for
example in article 52 of the charter of
fundamental rights of the union. It's
very clear. So you can't let's say u
protect a right and totally destroy the
essence of another competing right u so
let's say that uh the has a very huge
consideration of the uh right to data
protection then I come to the pro
question because you asked me about the
the the digital omnibus too much because
I'm I'm feeling that sometimes when we
are commenting as scholars in particular
particular maybe sometimes also
activists
um this changes at least these proposals
and initiatives there's this
idea that you know the US are
more or less stuck in this free speech
abs exceptionalism so they they see free
speech everywhere and maybe we see data
protection everywhere I'm I I don't want
to say that we have too much protection
because of course that will sound
paradoxical I think it's It's a very
important achievement and a very
important accomplishment that the courts
managed to um to to reach and I I am of
course very supportive of the right to
data protection but as you said before
it's a matter of balancing no right no
man is an island and no right is an it's
absolute absolute in terms of protection
so maybe there are u ages where we need
to revisit u some choices made uh
previously And as I said before, maybe
now we live in an age where we feel that
we need to to change a bit the balance
between you mentioned freedom to conduct
business. It's it's another fundamental
right but let's say generally speaking
we need to do something because we need
to promote economic growth and this
would be the way maybe uh of course I
understand that it's concerning from a
data protection perspective and just to
mention couple of points I understand
that there are concerns about the notion
of personal data that might change but
apparently
um there is no agreement there is no
consensus at U level and the college
legislators are already trying to push
back that idea from the proposal that
commission advance at the time. So it
seems that maybe there would be um
you know no change on that particular
perspective. Um, and I understand that
when you change the definition and the
notion of personal data, narrowing down
the scope of that notion may result in
maybe in some approaches where companies
are trying to leverage a bit you know
that change. So they try to say that
this is not personal data so they don't
need to comply with the GDPR in respect
of some particular activities. But maybe
this is also also the essence of the
accountability principle in the end
which is the core uh pillar of the GDPR.
Um I understand that also other aspects
might be challenging but honestly
speaking I think
I don't see anything right now which is
depriving the essence of the right to
data protection in the omnibus. Um I see
definitely many aspects that combined
for example with this uh possible change
in the definition and the notion of
personal data may give these overall uh
idea that we are weakening a bit the
protections. Uh but once again what are
why are we doing so and which are the
other uh priorities that are emerging in
this age?
Um I I found your point absolutely
fascinating and it makes a lot of sense
the way you explained it. Um you'd uh
forgive me if I add um a little um kind
of um maybe um another color to to this
conversation. I always find very
interesting how um at an academic level
um the protection of personal data that
has been achieved through the GDPR and
and all other regulations because it's
not just a GDPR is always described as
something that um kind of promotes the
right to data protection that is also a
fundamental right as you said maybe
something in some way as you said um
maybe it has given it an um um
overruling importance
Um on the other hand though um coming
from the litigation side if you ask many
lawyers they would tell you that the
GDPR hasn't been technically enforced
yet from a remedial point of view. So if
we look at the actual allocation of
damages for violations of the GDPR um I
believe currently the cases are very
very spared. They haven't even been
confirmed yet because they are looking
for appeal. um even a case before the
CJU is soon to go to appeal by none
other than the commission. Um so I I
wonder um is the regulation too strong
and the enforcement weak or would you
say maybe maybe the digital omnibus will
bring that balance back? Maybe there
will be more litigation and less um
prior and um potentially useless
enforcement. Yeah, I believe that the
regulation is very strong but the
enforcement is is still quite weak and
this is also a quite um general problem
that we experience in new digital law.
uh if there are interesting researchers
concerning for example um the
combination of various acts in new law
what you can see under the DSA whether
you can see under the DMA the AI act and
the GDPR for example and it seems that
uh on one hand there is a problem of
enforcement so making enforcements
um effective and and making this
provisions uh you know u applied and and
uh um and and the forks themselves. Uh
but the other problem is perhaps the
lack of um coordination between
different uh areas and and sometimes um
it's very difficult to understand
um what can we do uh under uh under U
digital law because there is so many uh
there are so many acts that's also the
feeling that maybe um I wouldn't say we
need a unique channel to enforce our
rights uh But u there is a lot of
confusions also the authorities in
charge of the enforcement are different
authorities. Sometimes you have European
authorities sometimes you have member
states authorities for some particular
aspects you rely on national authorities
for others you rely on European
authorities. Uh now you got we got this
news that for example you can go before
uh the court of justice uh in certain
circumstances if you want to appeal
against the uh decisions and from the
and that that is an interesting
advancement but once again you get to
that through case law in a way and so um
I I feel that we are still missing a
unifying vision and this is a problem
that I wouldn't limit to data protection
but I will just consider as part of a
bigger issue. But this is also something
I I'm not part of the Brussels bubble
even if I live very close uh to Brussels
and I attend some meetings and uh I'm
I'm also joining some think tank in
Brussels and um but what I can see I
think it's a it's a huge problem that
sometimes there are different branches
uh particularly I guess in uh in some of
the uh institutions that are not
talking. So there is a maybe not not
just a lack of common language but each
branch is following its own business.
It's minding just about its own business
and this doesn't make it easy to um get
to this unifying vision and uh kind of
holistic perspective that we are trying
to so I don't think the omnibus will
change that much from that perspective.
I know that there are concerns regarding
the possible limitations on the right to
access under and the uh and and and and
the fact that if there is a request
which is uh considered abusive then the
controller may decline requests and I
think that there is a nice reasoning by
the DPB and the BBS in their joint
opinion where they say um we need to be
mindful that uh abusive is uh something
we may define better and we need to
understand better just to just just
because there are um a lot of
circumstances where individuals are not
just exercising their data subject
rights and particularly the right to
access and right to obtain information
um under um uh data protection uh
justifications but also for the exercise
of other fundament for protecting free
speech for example um so something
sometimes you need to want to know
something so I I think that sometimes
times the omnibus may provide some
possible solutions but it's still far in
my view from solving this uh big problem
that we have in new digital law.
Talking about coordination uh that you
mentioned there is a uh a problem of uh
coordination in the enforcement of these
digital laws. What do you think are the
greatest challenge in coordinating for
example DSA, DMA and the GDP are the
three of the major digital laws that are
now in force.
>> But you know I think the problem is to
um make sure that what we see um from
one of the three perspective let's say
is u equally assessed and and and
relevant to the extent it might be
relevant also from the other branches.
So for example, we know from the court
of justice that data practices relevant
under the GDPR may also be relevant from
a competitive competition law
perspective under the DMA. So this is a
very interesting point a very
interesting development which is also um
you know an aspect where when you are
advising u someone as a lawyer I'm
thinking about that or I'm thinking
about um an academic that is trying to
uh lecture students about what they
should think about when they are lawyers
in their future in their professional
future. I I think that it's it's
difficult to tell them okay this is the
right way to look at this problems from
this variety of perspectives that you
might have uh because
you know that a given uh aspect may be
um relevant from various perspectives
and this is also maybe a problem of the
way we build expertise because now we
have people very expert in content
moderation then you have the people very
expert on the GDPR. Then you have people
expert on competition law. And each of
them, you know, I'm I'm for example, I'm
more familiar with the DSA and the GDPR.
I'm not a competition lawyer. So, for
example, I'm less familiar with the DMA,
but I know that there are very
interesting provisions under article 5,
paragraph 2, for example. And uh are you
trying to figure out what's going to
happen and what kind of uh as you said u
problems may arise not just in not only
in compliance but as you said from the
perspective of uh individuals users uh
consumers uh whether uh whatever the
jacket they wear whatever the clothes
they wear um
this is the the I think the big problem
because um we can't ignore that
it seems that these acts are basically
speaking their own language. Um and also
what I found quite uh interesting is
that um for example I I recently studied
the interaction between the DSA and the
AI act but many times new legislation
coming into force um uh is generally
very supportive and also a bit shy in
delving into what previous uh acts uh
already uh said. For example, it seems
that there is this common language. Uh
this provisions will apply without
prejudice to um previous acts. Uh and
and it seems that everything now is
coming up in digital law will apply
without prejudice to the GDPR which is
of course something that we are happy to
hear because u this means that they are
not changing the GDPR. If we think that
the GDPR is a good piece of legislation
then it's fine. But uh we might consider
sometimes the need to for example the AI
act of course uh contains some
provisions which are relevant from a
data protection perspective and maybe uh
something now we are we are we see
something for example uh concerning the
legal um um grounds and the legitimate
basis for processing data in the
training uh or on the development of the
operation. um we see some provisions
that are trying to bridge that gap. Why
don't we address the gap directly when
we are legislating on that particular
domain and similarly for example working
just to mention another example that
maybe is not so relevant for today's
conversation but I'm working on the
intersection between the AI act and the
DSA. Um there are recitalles that are
quite clear in saying that if you um are
developing or deploying an AI system
model and that model system is
integrated into a digital service under
the DSA then the DSA will apply fine but
it seems that this recital just suggests
that the same risk uh governance
framework is fine. So if you comply with
the DSA then you are presumed to be
complying with the AI act as well. But
what about for example content
moderation which is something I have to
work on. What about the generative AI
systems? what about so I mean sometimes
um this is my own feeling maybe I'm
wrong and I am uh I'm a bit biased in
this but I don't think that the law
makers are really engaging in what is
already there and and this is maybe the
the this you know uh
flaw loss syndrome that every time we we
we have new pieces of visualization
let's do that let's say that it will
apply without prejudice to previous and
then it's it's for the court to interper
for the court of justice maybe or for
people that are working in law firms or
in academia and or in policy uh or in
makers maybe not but I don't know in
regulators to understand how to solve
these dilemas that's the the point that
I see and uh the reason why I wanted to
this problem
>> I absolutely love that point on the act
DSA especially because our listeners
will remember that I wrote my dissation
in the topics
>> I bombed with this uh with with my
theory throughout 100 episodes. Um but
um before we let you go, Marco, and um
thank you for being so generous uh of of
your time with us. um we really really
need to tell our listeners um what they
can do to understand a bit better better
um this topic and I know that you have a
specific recommendation also for our
Italian listeners um but also um I'm
sure that they will enjoy uh to read the
article that we cited at the beginning
of the podcast that will be in the show
notes I'm sure Jako will take care of
that but also yeah tell our listeners
what they can do to understand this
topic better
>> yeah it's it's It's it's a bit u product
placement moment but maybe but I I I
enjoy it because the yeah the the I can
tell you that I am frequently um uh
walking on on podcasts and I'm recording
some of them particularly with one of
them with his name Macro and it's
published by Sventigator which is an
Italian um economic newspapers of course
for Italian speaking because they are in
Italians but um the article that was
mentioned before by Jakamo um was
basically born as a report that we
drafted for uh and prepared and
published with the cell which is the
center of regulation in Europe. I am a
research fellow at cell and republished
uh in the vista media which is another
law journal. it's in Italian but we host
many contributions also in English um an
increasing number which is also
something that makes me happy because
I'm also among the editors of that
journal so I I'm I think that this
really reflects the internationalization
that we may have we need indeed not just
in legal studies but also in legal
research in particular in these domains
so I I know that it sound like product
placements but of course uh It's uh it's
what I can offer and that's where
basically I tend to publish. But I I I
know there are a lot of sources and a
lot of platforms that are equally very
useful and of course what you do is very
useful as well and helpful for people to
understand the real challenges ahead.
>> It's not product placement if the
product is good I'm told. Um so
absolutely um everyone listen especially
if you're Italian listen to macro and um
go see that articles and uh maybe follow
what the the is doing because it looks
like it's a it's a very interesting and
exciting project to follow through and
yes I will thank you Marco Bassini
Professor Marco Bassini for joining us
on the podcast today.
>> My pleasure. Thank you so much for your
time and your attention and your
questions and comments but it was a
beautiful conversation.
This episode was brought to you in
partnership with DGB. Beetle
Dig Beetle helps privacy professionals
to stay upto-date with the most
important European documents in the AI,
data, and digital space every day.
Curious to know more? Check out the link
in our show notes.
