Welcome to another episode of Legal Pro
for Tech the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as I've said many many many
many times this is just a group of
students and young professionals who are
very interested in anything that has to
do with technology and yes it's
regulation. So today I am joined again
by my great friend and producer of the
show Jackgo. Hi Jack.
>> Hi Rosie. Very happy to be here.
>> Very happy as well. And you know you
actually uh brought us a very very
interesting person to interview. I'm
super happy to actually talk to uh this
um acquaintance of yours. Hi Patrick
Grady, great to see you and welcome on
the show.
>> Hi Rosie. Yes, thank you both for having
me. Excited to get started.
>> I'm very excited to know more about your
your career. I was uh looking at your CV
earlier of course and I'm super super
curious to know what you've been going
on and how you came across this path. So
tell our listeners a bit more about
yourself, why you're here, and what has
brought you into this position and yeah,
you're calling from Brussels, so even
more exciting.
>> Yeah, calling from Brussels. Um had the
chance also to work in the the
Netherlands and and Hungary also on tech
policy. Um but I've always been in tech
policy. I'm kind of um I'm a hardcore
tech policy guy, but a bit of a
chameleon with where I've worked. So I
started off working um yeah just
studying these issues in academia uh
through both philosophy and then
political science. Then working for an
NGO um then for uh a think tank then the
private sector I was also briefly
freelance and then I arrived uh here in
my latest role where I'm in a trade
association. So we we have member
companies and we're yeah center left
tech coalition. We're advocating for
progressive technology policy.
>> Entering directly into the topics that
we want to discuss. Um let's discuss
about the this simplification that is
going around Brussels right now.
Simplification can be interpreted now as
uh the regulation or poor administrative
tiding from your work with organizations
navigating UTK rules. What do you think
is this simplification agenda really
about and what are the main
misconceptions that you encounter? Uh
let me start by saying it's yeah it's I
it's not super simple. Um there's uh
some quite large regulations being
discussed to try and um I think clarify
different digital rules that we have in
the EU. Um maybe it should be called the
clarification agenda. Um but uh okay so
what what is it trying to do? I think on
the one hand at the political level it's
a kind of signal. It's a signal that the
EU is trying to do something a bit
different that it's responding to some
of the criticism and it its own
reflections on on how it should approach
governance in this new geopolitical
world. It's also hopefully a signal to
companies and startups that um the
environment in Brussels will be slightly
easier to to navigate. Um so it's the EU
is in this process of looking in the
mirror and seeing what it can do to make
um yeah it's its rule book a bit
simpler. Um, one of the misconceptions I
suppose besides just the fact it's not
super simple is um, yeah, you hear a lot
of criticisms that this is an agenda
being driven from outside from um,
foreign companies who find it too
difficult to operate in Brussels um, in
the EU I should say. Um now that is
that's also true like there there are
plenty of complaints coming from foreign
companies about how uh difficult it can
be sometimes. Um but the misconception
is that it's just those companies. Um
the truth is it's actually European
companies who are saying this as well
and uh especially I think the the
smallest companies who are spending more
time than they want to be on on hiring
lawyers. No offense guys. and um and
focusing on compliance instead of like
innovating on products. So yeah, I think
a lot of these critics um I think are
not doing justice to to European
concerns and and some of those interests
they claim to represent.
>> It's it's really difficult to navigate
the landscape in the digital omnibus and
I think you you correctly pointed out
it's it's not a simple document. It's a
very long document and then if we also
look at the body of the amendments from
the parliament and then for example the
the joint opinion of the EDP VPS you
know it's it's a whole kind of bulk of
documents I think it's very difficult to
see where it's heading in the end you
know um however I like
do you really think and on that I I
think I'm being a bit provocative here
um do you really think that smaller
companies memes have really got the
winning point if the gen if the digital
omnibus um actually comes into force
because yes they would be helped but
other things like you know mass data
collectors like social media companies
like um AI companies of course they
would have it much easier. Do you really
think that SMMES in Europe, small
startups that do tech, that do AI
potentially will have it easier here?
Yeah. So, look at it from the
perspective of one of the big companies.
If um if if they're operating all over
Europe and there's a a new regulation
that causes a bit of a headache
internally, you know, they already have
these massive legal teams that can deal
with that. and um you know some some
extent it becomes just part of the
operating cost for them. If you're a
smaller company that could be the
difference between going to market and
not going to market. So it's it just
it's just a much higher percentage of of
their overall costs. And then there's
research already we have from um if I
look at the GDPR that it
disproportionately hurtsmemes
um exactly because of this.
So um about the the digital omnibus uh
the digital omnibus right now it seems a
package that sounds very very technical.
What is actually trying to achieve from
your point of view and what were the key
political or institutional drivers for
bundling this change into a single
omnibus file rather than reopening each
law individually?
>> Yeah. So just maybe if in case it's
helpful for for for listeners as well,
the there's so many of these um
buzzwords now. So
uh the EU had it had what it was calling
like a competitiveness agenda. So it
wanted to um compete um more effectively
globally like economically. Um then we
had a simplification package and part of
the package is these omnibuses. Um so
there's like an omnibus for climate,
there's an omnibus for digital and
there's I think there's 10 in total.
There's one for defense sector as well.
So on the digital one, um the idea with
the omnibus um you know rather than
addressing and trying to revise many of
these laws individually, you can assess
them all at once. Um
uh which would be more efficient on the
one hand and also on the other hand it's
just like necessary in some cases. So if
I take the if I take the example of
cookie banners. So this is something
that I'm I'm sure you've you've been
annoyed by in the past. Um I think even
the people who are most privacy
conscious will have at one point just
smashed that like accept all button
because it's so annoying. Um and also
annoying for companies. They don't want
to put up these hurdles. So this is
something that the European Commission
wants to tackle. The issue is it's it's
uh the reason we have these pop-ups is
in part because of the privacy directive
and in part because of GDPR creating
that need for the consent mechanism. So
if you want to look at cookie banners,
you have to look at the way those two
bills interact and and that's some of
the reasons we see these bill these
different laws being bundled together in
in in this omnibus. Um, one exception is
um the so there's also a separate AI
omnibus and you know there's a few
different things that are being looked
at but the main one is um the de the
deadline by which companies have to
comply with some of the most stringent
obligations in the AI act and um the
reason that's being separated out from
the digital omnibus is because some of
those um deadlines are like this August
in a few months
So, it's being like super fast streamed
and still there's a uh it's not clear
whether it's going to pass in time to
affect the the the laws that it's it's
reviewing which is a very confusing
situation especially for companies
>> but like I think that's an issue with
digital omnibus and and I think you
you've framed it very very nicely there
um it is an issue of clarification even
the EDPB and EDPS have agreed to the
point that there must be kind of format
documents for the DPI for example there
must be format documents for the
notification to inform users of the
potential of data processing because um
it's it's very difficult for each
company especially when they're small
companies to take care of that um and
and it is kind of
>> you're right it it is harder for small
companies I think you're now agreeing
with the point from before
>> yeah yeah absolutely absolutely I'm I'm
the first one that agrees with uh with
the idea that companies need to be
helped and especially when we are in
Europe. The issue that I think was quite
um clear also by for example reading the
amendments to the to the um AI omnibus
the ones that were made public and
available from from the parliament is
that you know the GDPR the AS these are
general regulations and if you make it
easier for everyone that's that was my
point before and I I think we need to to
look at how the European market
specifically is helped
Because if you make it easier for
everyone, you make it easier even for
those who already have an advantage like
I think that's the big problem that
potentially can be associated with
having an omnibus which is and again a
blanket bundle. It's not a specific
sector specific and sectordriven kind of
of regulation.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think I think that
that that could be um a risk and I think
it's maybe just it it says something
about the um the weight of political
pressure for the EU to do something
different that we're maybe seeing
something that does look like super
encompassing and um you know ideally
again as I said before we would look at
everything individually and make sure
that we we get the impact right so um
yeah I think it just says a lot about
what was needed maybe from um from the
EU in terms of strategy Yeah.
>> Okay. That's a really interesting
perspective. Um I also wanted to ask you
since we are here talking about um a bit
more of what you do in terms of your
career. Um let's talk about the DG
progress project that you're running. Um
we want to know something more about it
and so we can ask you more questions
about it since I think it's very much
connected to what we told you about.
>> Yeah, sure. So um Digi Progress is a
project of Chamber of Progress. Um we
for those that don't know like um digies
or director generals are the names of
ministries basically in the EU. Uh we
didn't see a ministry um yet for uh
that's looking specifically at consumer
economic and social progress. So we we
set up Digi Progress. Um, one of the
things we notice is that there's a lot
of negativity around um, yeah, on the
one hand just technology in general, but
on the other hand about Europe's
prospects. Um, there's lots of things we
see that are positive about um, about
Europe's tech ecosystem like you know
its talent, its specialtity in certain
sectors. Um, some encouraging uh, signs
about the level of venture capital
that's flowing in. So um, we see a lot
of positivity. We want to use Digi
Progress as a platform to um to advocate
for for these founders and for these
innovators in Europe to give them a kind
of bridge to policy makers here in
Brussels. And um as we've started
mingling with these folks, we've also
become very interested in in specific uh
policies as well. Uh particularly the
28th regime.
>> Yeah, you mentioned it. So uh we we are
not at least I'm not very familiar with
the 28 regime. So uh could you tell us
more like what what is it about and do
you think from the talks till now you
will be able to achieve the goals?
Um yes. So let me start by saying I
don't know whether you've tried to set
up a business in um I think Germany or
in Belgium. Um
I tried it once a few years ago. I was
chatting to an accountant about it. Um,
it was going to take several months and
cost several thousand.
Um, much of this money is going to a
notary that I will never meet. Um, it's
it's a nightmare. Like it's and you
don't I think you don't appreciate the
the situation until you try in other
places. Like I know in the UK for
example, it's you know it's within 24
hours you can do it online. There's
there's no need for paperwork. I think
um it's like €50. Uh it's you know the
the difference is dramatic. I'm sure in
places like Estonia, it's even it could
be even better. So, just want to put
that fact out there for now. We might
look back to it. The um the 28th regime
recognizes that if you're a company in
Lithuania and you want to start doing
business in Portugal, you have to um
let's say in Lithuania, you you've
incorporated there, you're abiding by
the labor and tax laws of Lithuania. If
you then want to do business in
Portugal, you have to set up your
company again in Portugal because
they're not going to recognize your
company that you set up in Lithuania and
then start abiding by different tax and
and labor laws. Um, now you then have to
do that in 26 other countries to operate
in the whole market which is a
nightmare. Compare that to somewhere
like the states where many people
incorporate so set up their company in
Delaware and they can immediately access
all all 50 states. So um so we what the
EU wanted to do and this isn't a totally
new idea is to make it easier for a
company to to operate across the uh to
get one to scale across the market and
also to just get make it easier to track
the investment across the um across a
single market. So rather than have 27
different regimes, there will be a 28th
regime. And this is a uh an optional um
uh set of uh laws that the um companies
can sign up to like incorporate with and
then they will be recognized across the
block. Now uh in practice it's really
hard to get uh different stakeholders to
agree to this because uh if
let's take them take each of the laws
separately. So if it's the uh the labor
laws we know what's going to happen if
if if a company can um you know the
trade unions are worried that companies
are going to go to areas with the just
the lowest uh least protective labor
laws. um if it's if it's a taxation
problem well then we have a problem
where you know everyone floats to to
Ireland or whatever just to go to
whatever the um taxation laws are most
friendly. So for that reason it's it's
it was proved to be quite controversial
these two other elements but the first
element just having setting up your
company and it being recognized in
different in different member states
that's something that I think will go
ahead and there's a lot of political
momentum for this um and also momentum
from the startup and investor community
that I mentioned earlier um there's a a
parallel campaign called EU Inc. Again,
it's the idea of having rather than a
separate incorporation, having a EU
level thing. And I mean, for for for the
purpose of this discussion, it's
essentially the same thing as as as 28th
regime. Uh but it's being led by this
grass grassroots movement of um of like
founders and investors. Uh really fun,
wild group of people. They're really
into their memes. Um so, uh we're trying
to work with them a little bit through
Digi Progress. We interviewed one of the
initiators in um in our first newsletter
and um for our next one which uh yeah, I
think in about half an hour we'll be
interviewing uh hopefully an MEP who is
supporting this um campaign as well and
that we'll feature that in our next one.
So yeah, we're super on board with
E-Wing 28th regime. I think if you're a
European who believes in a bigger
federal Europe, you're on board. I think
if you're somebody who thinks you want
to make life easier for startups and
thememes, you're on board. Um if you're
just a euroile, you're on board. So it's
um it's a really yeah exciting
initiative we're following.
>> That's brilliant, Patrick. And you know
um sometimes legal for tech is also the
point and and the um kind of best means
for a little bit of plugging. So please
tell us listeners something more about
your newsletter, at least the title so
they can they can go follow you. Yeah, I
mean I've been shamelessly plugging for
at least five minutes, but um okay, so
it's called Digi Progress. Um we are um
you you'll find us on Substack. Um
you'll also find us on active on
LinkedIn X. I think we're still seeing a
bunch of people on X, which is maybe
surprising. Um and and Blue Sky. Uh so
follow us wherever you can there and
you'll find those links I think through
my profile if you can't find them
organically.
>> That's a brilliant plug. Well done. Um I
wanted to ask you then um in this
context of the 28th regime, we are also
potentially seeing that um AI tools and
AI workflow streaming for example can be
very helpful as you uh correctly pointed
out there is this kind of issue with um
let's say labor law being different
across countries and you know if you can
potentially deploy AI tools a bit more
um it can be a bit more useful. Wouldn't
would you say that that's also maybe in
the commissions or at least in the in
the United Europe kind of um ideal or do
you think that tech has nothing to do
with this?
>> No, I think um anything that can reduce
the um the complexity um so if AI tools
can do that then then great. Yeah, I
think it to your question is it in the
thinking? I think it is. I think I read
something about this this week that the
commission was exploring something like
that. So, um, yeah, I think I think it's
definitely, uh, in the thinking. Yeah,
>> that's super super interesting. And
talking about technology and about how
to make it better for the people that
use it as well. Um, I've heard that you
are very interested and very
knowledgeable in what's called the
digital fitness check.
So I'm going to ask you uh about um what
kind of review of the digital rule book
in the United in the European Union um
that um has to do with and also um what
kind of opportunities are you seeing um
within the broader scope of
simplification thinking of the 28th
regime thinking of what we've talked
about today. So the digital omnibus 28
regime the potential for new regulations
the potential for avoiding new
regulation like for example the aability
directive was not uh passed by the
European Commission. What's let's let's
kind of um put this all together and do
a finish check.
>> Yeah sure. So sorry by the way I was
chuckling while you were while you were
speaking because you said I was very
knowledgeable about this and I think
that's very generous. Um but uh so yeah,
we're in the process now of working out
how to we're going to uh Chamber of
Progress will be submitting a response
um to the consultation on on the digital
fitness check. Um it's the way we're
understanding it and speaking also to
some other stakeholders here. Um it's
a look at simplifying the digital rule
book that is everything that's not
included in the omnibus. So uh there are
a bunch of other topics. I think you you
listed some of them. Um we have this
upcoming digital fairness act which you
that might this might be an opportunity
to say something about that. Um we uh
there are other issues related to the
rule book being complex that are not
covered by individual regulations. So
just the overall approach to regulating
like should there be different kinds of
impact assessments. Um also recommend
recommendations from yeah the the
dragging letter report that you may be
familiar with. Um are there different
kinds of definitions that need to be
harmonized? certainly something like you
know target advertising personalization
these are these are concepts that you
see floating across GDPR AI act DSA and
um it's not clear like sometimes how
those um definitions interact with each
other so yeah it's a it's a kind of
broader look at the digital rule book um
and one more thing I would add is I
mentioned earlier the AI omnibus is um
mostly not wholly focused on uh the
issue of timelines and deadlines um
speaking was with somebody from
parliament last month they said well the
digital um fitness check might be an
opportunity to look at the AI act in a
broader sense so not just focus on the
issues that are being tackled in the in
the in the omniverse that's going on now
>> yeah that's that's super interesting and
I mean it's always good when these kind
of projects are being run because I
think you know sometimes laws are made
in the room and then yeah you kind of
consult with some stakeholders but
obviously there are deadlines and stuff
and then the law comes out And then you
kind of see how it gets implemented in
practice. I think when we think about
the GDPR, I do think that the
legislature wasn't thinking that
something like DPIA could take so much
time. And um we as well legal for tech,
we have some of our colleagues that um
have been working as um kind of in-house
lawyers for a lot of time and they hated
the process. It was like, "Oh my gosh, I
have to do another DBA." That was the
conversation that was going.
>> Yeah. And sometimes it's making that's a
good point because one of the things we
need to do is to make that simpler and
more uniform to do. Um but also the
other thing that GDPR didn't like quite
anticipate you know as you would expect
is um is is the use of data for training
AI models. And so we had this strange
situation was it last year or the year
before where you know some member states
were like shutting down open AI or going
after them or or other companies and and
other different products were not coming
to the EU because and really uh that
should been clarified at the EU level
from the European data protection board
and um the you don't want a market where
if you're a foreign company you don't
know whether you're going your product
is allowed and there are disagreements
within different member states like
that's that's not ideal. So, um yeah,
this this fitness check might be an
opportunity to look at um how to make
some of the enforcement um decisions a
bit simpler as well.
>> That's that's a that's a very good point
and I love how you said some countries
um yeah the first one that shut down
famously chibini was Italy. So for us it
was like
>> yeah he worked first or something but no
um I do agree with you and it's a very
interesting point that you make
especially um focusing on AI on this
part on LMS of course you know AI is a
broader concept than what we usually
identified with
um and I'm very interested in what you
think about data in this specific field
because
you know AI technology sounds like it's
something new and innovative and of post
is but a lot of it I mean most of it is
dependent on data and data sets and I
think that the point of the commission
and in general of the European kind of
legislative um bodies is trying to find
the key that puts together the use of
data and protection with the kind of new
technology new possibilities that this
new uh emerging branch uh of automation
uh kind is bringing. So I was curious to
know from you um do you think that less
protection or like a different type of
protection should be given to the
personal data that gets input into AI?
Do you think we can talk about personal
data at all when we talk about LMS?
Um,
yeah, I think we just have to be aware
of the the the the trade-offs. Like,
what happens if we're not using European
data in LLMs? We're going to find we're
using very like Americanized LMS that
are talking about sidewalks instead of
pavements and saying howdy and things um
that are alien to us Europeans. Um, so I
think, you know, we if we want uh
European outputs, we we need European
inputs on the one hand. Um and then on
the other hand, it's just a case of, you
know, you're you're right to flag that
data is very important for these AI
models to compete if we want Mistral to
be um one of the leading AI companies
that also needs access to uh to personal
data. And so um but you know, finding
the right mechanisms to do so is is
something that's going to be is part of
this omnibus and and these yeah, these
conversations are still uh are still
ongoing. I think it's it's it's just a
shame the convers the conversation
around AI has changed so much in you
know my time in Brussels I was here in
um in you have to bear in mind the AI
act when it was designed if you look at
the the impact assessment that was meant
to inform it there's no mention of LLM
there's no mention of of general purpose
AI there's no mention so it I I
witnessed this bill being created um
with a very different understanding of
what AI is what it can do what it can't
do. And then we had this series of
negotiations where then chat GBT
launched and and everyone became very
panicked. You know, it was going to be
the end of education. There was um the
end of democracy, disinformation
apocalypse. Artists are no long going to
have jobs. And it's just okay. So 2
years later, we have a very different
understanding of AI and now we're
looking at as like a geopolitical tool
and and now we really want to be really
good at AI. Um, but the problem is we've
already implemented this very
comprehensive bill that's like not super
helpful at times. Even the person who
wrote the the uh the act um in the
European Commission had this shocking um
uh interview last summer where he said,
"I'm not even sure it should be
regulated." And I was under a lot of
pressure to put this through. And it's
it's just it's so disappointing. It's
also disappointing if you care about
risks because if we were sensible, we
would have looked at some areas. I think
now we're calling it nudification
um of AI being used for nudification and
it's something that we that wasn't part
of the discussion during the AI act. I
was writing we if in a former role we
were writing about um AI being used for
for nudification and how AI acts needed
to address that. But if you're talking
about a bill that covers everything it's
it's really hard to get those like
really um surgical uh items on the
table. Um sorry I went on a rant on AI
in the end. Uh but yes, data is very
important. Thank you.
>> I love that conclusion. Data is very
important. Yeah. And let us do a plug a
a quick one here like we we also talked
to an MEP on this point. Um Alexander
Gizer, she's the interview is coming out
on the 8th of March. Um because we
talked about nutification and the role
of AI and the role of in general um kind
of
um I think women the role of women in in
the context of digital society and
digital technology which is a is a very
um interesting topic to to learn about
uh especially when thinking about um who
benefits from simplification for
example.
>> Yeah. It's also it's also a big um it's
a democratic issue as well because if
there are fewer women in public life and
political life these tools are often
used to weaponize and and demoralize
people who are um trying to achieve
those roles. So yeah, I think it's a
it's a very important issue and um I
know that there's a the gender based
violence directive will be I think
enforceable from next year um uh which
will which will make uh the some of this
behavior illegal um because it's not
currently um so yeah, we'll see. And I
and also like I hope the DSA
investigation against Grock uh goes um
the way it should.
>> Yeah, that's um we we have hope and u as
well maybe there will be ground for
litigation in case it doesn't you know
like there's always other means uh
available to to people that have been
affected and hurt. And um so I'm now
going to ask you the very very last
question before Jack reminds me and he's
right that um of course the podcast has
a duration. Um I wanted to ask you um
maybe aside from the newsletter that our
listeners will be finding they can find
it on Substack as we saw and on LinkedIn
and also on Blue Sky and X if I'm not
wrong and it's called DG Progress.
Do you do you have any other suggestions
for example of things that our listeners
could be looking at to understand a bit
more what we're talking about which is
the clarification principle behind the
digital omnibus and how that kind of
entails and interwines with the concept
of the 28th regime and making business
in the free market of the European Union
a bit easier and a bit swifter. So like
other resources basically.
Um well uh yeah let me just take this
moment to say I think um legal for tech
is doing a fantastic job. Um I'm not
just saying that cuz I'm here and I know
it's not it's even great to advertise to
your own audience but um uh yeah no
really like I think you have your guests
are bang on like true experts. Um and
especially there are two technology
podcasts in in Brussels that have gone
away. So there was one by your active
and there was one by global council
which I don't think is coming back. So
um anyway so keep doing what you're
doing. It's it's really it's really cool
and appreciated. Um in terms of other
resources um I think uh I think you
might you may have also interviewed Lara
Lara Kurilli. Um I mean yeah we we I
don't think Lara and I would agree on
the balance of risks and benefits of
technology but um yeah you won't find a
more credible expert on AI than than her
and she does really great work on
Substack. Um there's another substack
called the EU uh artificial intelligence
newsletter by Risto UK and and somebody
and the f future life institute. Again
it's it's you know the they do so well
to be uh neutral. They they share
different kinds of views in a very like
intellectually honest way and and it's
right on the money in terms of what
people are talking about. Um here in
Brussels there's another one by a lawyer
you'll be glad to hear called he's
called Mikoli. Um, I'm not going to try
and butcher his surname, but it's called
How EU Tech influence, how law
influences EU tech, I think. Um, really
good on everything to do with like
omnibus, data protection, um, and the
interaction between some of the
regulations we were discussing. So, uh,
those are a few slightly more, I guess,
light-hearted, but still relevant for
some of the things we've been talking
about. Um, is the tech recker. Um, it's
by AI ethicists. Um but she has like a
very good understanding of like some of
the global business stuff and she's also
an expert on China. So it's it's uh
interesting from a more global
perspective.
>> That's brilliant. Um we will um our
leaders will find all the information
about everything we're talking about and
of course your recommendations in our
show notes and I know that Jako is
already typing down all the names that
you mentioned and I know that Mika Yum
and sadly yes his surname is impossible
to pronounce. Nikolai, you're more than
welcome to come on the podcast and help
us pronounce your surname as well, aside
from u maybe um kind of fostering this
conversation that's been going on.
>> Oh, let me add one more. There's one
more called I think it's called the
digitalf fairness.eu or something by
James Tamman. It's also very good for
like DFA and fitness track stuff.
>> That's that's absolutely brilliant.
Thank you so much, Patrick. It was a
pleasure to meet you and it it will be a
pleasure for us to follow DG progress.
We we hope to to listen and and uh read
the interview that you just uh referred
to and we'll let you know if you like
it.
>> Super. Thank you so much for having me.
This was really fun. Uh keep up what
you're doing.
>> Thanks. And this was all from the legal
for tech the podcast.
This episode was brought to you in
partnership with DJ Beetle.
DGB tool helps privacy professionals to
stay upto-date with the most important
European documents in the AI, data, and
digital space every day. Curious to know
more? Check out the link in our show
notes.
