Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast
with Sanjay Puri. AI is changing the
world faster than rules can keep up.
[music] So, how do we protect people
without killing progress? Each week,
Sanjay brings you inside [music]
conversations with global leaders,
policy makers, and innovators who are
wrestling with that exact question. So,
if you're curious about the future of
technology and how it's governed, you're
in the right place.
Today on the Regulating AI podcast,
we're thrilled to welcome Armenia's
Minister of Finance. [music] As an
economist, he climbed the ranks from
bank accounting to high finance, honed
his chops [music] as a public finance
expert for the Asian Development Bank,
and in December 2022 took the helm of
Armenia's fiscal policy. He now leads
Armenia through a pivotal era of
economic transformation, [music]
straddling digital ambitions, security
pressures, and the ever evolving AI
frontier.
>> Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast.
[music] We have a real special guest
with us today. We have the minister of
finance from Armenia who's here for the
World Bank IMF meetings. The head of the
IMF said artificial intelligence could
have an huge impact in terms of the
economy etc. So we want to have that
conversation but many other things
because people who are our listeners
will be surprised by what they hear from
the minister. Minister we have a global
audience. These are folks who are
venture capitalists, policy leaders.
These are entrepreneurs building
companies and they are global. So
firstly, welcome to the regulating AI
podcast. It's such a pleasure to have
you. Please tell our listeners about
Armenia, about yourself. Minister,
>> thank you and thanks for uh this
invitation. It's really an honor to be
your guest and uh to have this great
audience. Yeah, Armenia is in south
caucus for those who does not mean does
not know about that. Uh we have been
part of Soviet Union and have been uh
one of the technological centers of
Soviet Union. In fact uh in 80s 3% of
our population have been engineers and
uh some big part of the high-tech
industry of Soviet have been located in
Armenia. Unfortunately in '90s we have
lost uh some of that capacity but now we
are uh regaining our natural strength in
that and we have a vibrant ecosystem uh
technological ecosystem and uh with the
AI development in the recent years uh we
were been happy that we have announced a
very big uh AI factory uh investment
program with Nvidia and uh we are
working towards that. We hope uh to uh
start it soon.
>> You got a lot going on for a country
that is small. For our listeners, what
is the AI factory? Just uh just to give
them an idea, it's Nvidia. Is it a data
center that is being set up? Uh
minister?
>> Yes, this is a big data center which
will have a huge capacity for uh data
processing for the region.
>> Mhm. uh where there is lotads of
technological development also in the
region. Why is Armenia also attractive
for that? Because as I said we have a
very good talent in this area and there
is a need also for energy because
Armenia is a uh exporter of the energy.
We have more energy than we need. So
there opens up opportunities for
creation of these type of data center
which are energy intensive.
>> So Armenia for our listeners has talent
it has energy as we know for AI those
are two huge components. Minister we
were talking before you said comp large
companies also have R&D facilities in
Armenia and for listeners who are
looking at some R&D facilities. what
kind of companies would be welcome to
set up R&D facilities you know given
what's already there the talent that
exists
>> yeah uh for for many years we have been
uh very successful in chip design
uh for example a very famous company uh
Synopsis have uh their R&D uh center in
Armenia for many years now and uh after
Russia Ukraine war many technological
companies which were located in Moscow.
They decided to move uh their offices to
Armenia.
This will not only include US-based
companies like Nvidia R&D center, which
is now located in Armenia, but also
Russian tech companies like Yandex. They
are also have moved their uh R&D centers
to uh to Armenia. And of course I'm I'm
more a financial guy but I think the
main reason is that they know there is a
existing ecosystem. It's good to live in
our country uh with healthy environment
and from this perspective this is also a
very good area where uh technological
uh giants are interested in to work with
our country.
>> So a lot of interest in there. You
mentioned you are a finance person. So
we'll talk a little bit about the from
your portfolio perspective. The IMA
president said that artificial
intelligence, the investments etc could
have an impact on the economy because
there's trillions of dollars that is
being invested. And on the other hand,
there are some job losses we can see at
least in the United States that are
happening because of AI will automate
some of those functions whether it is
call centers or even programming and
things of that nature. What is your view
in terms of AI's role in the economy
when you look at Armenia? Obviously, you
know, US, you know, there's massive
investments. Do you think it is a
bubble? A lot of people say hey you know
because of the dotcom bubble let's just
be careful. You are the finance expert
and tell our listeners I mean what is
your perspective on this?
>> I don't think this is a bubble. I don't
I think this is a really big change and
I think that uh the the big change have
not yet happened. So we are starting the
process and I think that uh AI will
advance in the future and which more uh
progressive way. I think that AI will
replace some of people and will
challenge human beings. So we spend more
time and attention to our personal
development because there is a big
compet big competition on the
intellectual uh world. But from the
other point of view, there will be uh
very big efficiency gains. will spend
less time to do in Ministry of Finance
doing analytical work and provide the
services to our citizens which will
decrease the costs and increase their
effectiveness and this will create
additional space for investing in
education and all other areas which are
important strategically including some
of those which are needed to understand
uh in this new reality what are the
areas I think this is mostly education
uh where we can uh spend and have
innovative uh programs so that our labor
force is more involved in creative areas
rather than technical areas which will
be replace replaced by AI
>> so you heard the minister say that he
doesn't think it's a bubble there will
be some displacement or maybe
replacement or transformation of people,
but it'll free up people to do more
strategic things, more fun things. Like
I always wanted to learn how to play
drums. Maybe I'll get a chance to do
that. But that's a pretty good
perspective. Minister, within your
ministry, are you using AI? We are now
uh starting uh to have strategies on
which areas will pilot AI in the
ministry and that was one of the topics
I was talking in meetings with IMF that
we would like to more hear about uh
other countries uh experience but we are
using AI in our tax uh and we see that
this uh provides a lots of uh uh
important inputs for our data analysis.
>> Mhm. And uh this uh reduces uh time and
increases the accuracy of of audit work
that our tax office is doing. And we
will be we will be investing more in
this type of schools. And I hope that if
uh when I come next times uh next time
here uh I will also tell that about our
uh successful pilots within the ministry
particularly. There are two areas that
uh I think we can uh go uh straight
forward. It is a treasury function
>> and this is procurement function and uh
you probably heard that um uh there is a
procurement minister which is AI Europe.
>> Yes, we heard that. So that's good to
hear that it's you're doing uh
implementing it with taxes and then
you've got some pilots that are coming
in from procurement and other
standpoint. Do you think AI will improve
the interactions with citizens make it
more efficient in terms of public
delivery of services whether it is tax
filing it is their issues etc. Do you
think AI can play a big role in that
minister? Yes, I think uh AI can help
there a lot. So lots of people in their
interaction from one point of view they
want this human relationship from the
other point of view they don't want this
relationship because they say I don't
want to deal with anybody just solve my
problem.
>> Y
>> it will take time until AI will be able
to accurately solve the problems. So I
think we should find the right balance
>> on how the how we are using AI in which
areas where the algorithms are clear.
>> Mhm.
>> And of course to keep in the uh
connecting points human touch.
>> Mhm. So there is a human judgment and we
see uh that we do not lose in our
relationships doesn't matter personal or
with the government this human uh
connection.
>> Yeah. In terms of uh minister you are
dealing on the tax side on a lot of
people data and other stuff. Are there
kind of any governance or any kind of
structures that are that either have
been set up or you're thinking of
setting up to make sure you know because
sometimes AI can hallucinate AI can
maybe you know there could be loss of
privacy and things of that nature.
>> Uh in recent years we have created uh
one agency which is dealing with
digitalization. Of course we have a also
high-tech ministry.
>> Mhm. And we are now in the process of
creating another one which which will be
more dealing with uh cyber security.
There is no particular agency which is
dealing with AI but I think in upcoming
future we will be discussing which of
the agencies can also do this work. You
know in government systems uh some
things uh take slowly but they uh but
when they take off uh they go fast. I am
not that afraid that we are far behind.
>> No, you are not. You're not. Minister,
for our audience, uh what would be
something that you would want to leave
behind as a action item or something as
they are listening to you right now,
whether they are in the US, they are in
Europe, in Asia, etc. about Armenia,
about opportunities in Armenia. If you
can tell our audience a little bit. One
of the key events which happened
recently is the signature of the peace
uh with uh Azerbajan which happened in
Washington and there is a agreement uh
signed also with United States where we
set the cooperation in the areas of
power and uh technology AI and some uh
crossber infrastructure. So this creates
uh lots of interest towards uh our
country where we are thinking to become
integral part of the middle corridor and
we uh presented our uh project of
crossroads of peace and I think from
this old technological development and
uh the innovative policies that we have
Armenia is an interesting place on the
map to explore to visit and to see if
you find that the talented people which
I'm mentioning are there and how that if
there is a cooperation uh perspective.
Well, I think there is some amazing
opportunities if the minister of finance
can talk about AI and technology so
fluently. I have a feeling the citizens
uh there must be uh very capable too. So
for our audience, I think this is an a
unique opportunity where you see Nvidia
setting up an AI factory, a lot of R&D
uh being done, bright technological uh
workforce, talented people and Armenia
is situated right there and I think you
have a government that is really pro
technology. So I really thank you so
much uh minister. Thank you for taking
the time and really look forward as you
said when you come next maybe your
pilots would have been done maybe there
will be some other AI factories that
have been set up but it'll be a real
pleasure and thank you for taking the
time.
>> Thank you very much and I hope that uh
my speech inspired inspired you to uh to
have uh our next meeting in in Yeravan
not here. [music]
>> Look forward to that. Absolutely look
forward. Thank you so much minister.
>> Thank you too.
>> Thank you.
Thanks for tuning in to the Regulating
AI podcast [music] with Sanjay Kuri. If
you enjoyed today's conversation, don't
forget to leave [music] a comment. We'd
love to hear what you thought. Share it
with someone curious about the future of
EI and join us next time for more
stories and insights from the leaders
shaping what's ahead right here on the
Regulating AI podcast.
