Every time like I I'm traveling I I hear
people talk about AI for that it is like
a nice to have oh it will increase
productivity and efficiency for us it's
a matter of life and death empa is not
fully regulated up to this point why
because we are constantly look at
innovating around it and that is the
same stance we should be taking with AR
is we don't know where this technology
is taking us we don't know where it's
going what we need to do is put measures
in place to protect human dignity and
human life human human lives but on the
other hand allow for innovation to go
and be built. If you're consolidating
human knowledge we able to access it in
Africa without artificial walls that had
been put for Africans not to access
these things because we just in the
African continent. Yeah. On the other
hand, Africa is now able to influence
the rest of the world because they we
have knowledge they don't have. Yeah.
And we able to actually allow people to
understand who we are as Africa from our
point of view.
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast.
Join host Sanjay Puri as he explores the
dynamic and developing world of
artificial intelligence governance. Each
episode features deep dives with global
leaders at the forefront of regulating
AI responsibly, tackling the challenges
using AI can bring about head-on and
enabling balance without hindering
innovation.
Welcome everyone to regulating AI the
podcast dedicated to fostering a global
conversation on building fair and
equitable frameworks for artificial
intelligence. I'm your host Sanjay Puri
and today we are joined by a truly
inspiring leader who brings a unique
African perspective to the AI regulation
table. Dr. Shiko Ghetto is the founder
and CEO of Kahala, a company often
referred to as Africa's very own skunk
works, a hub of innovation focused on
driving the continent's digital
transformation. Dr. Gau, with your
background in computer science and your
expertise in leading digital solutions
for Africa, you have some very valuable
insights to share with us today. Thank
you for joining us on regulating AI.
Thank you so much Fury for having me. Um
I've listened to some of the podcasts
that you've had before. Very engaging
and very thoughtful provoking
conversation. So I'm happy to um
contribute to that uh ongoing discuss
around AI especially from an African
point of view. Thank you for having me.
Uh fantastic. Um uh Shiko, our listeners
are global. Uh we have a lot of uh
members of Congress, US members of
Congress, uh Senate, uh European MPs,
staff, uh think tank leaders, CEOs of
companies and other AI officers will
listen to us. So obviously they'll be
very very interested to hear your
perspective. So first, why don't we
begin with your journey? Can you tell
our listeners about your journey and
what inspired you to establish Kala?
So um my journey starts in the middle of
Kenya in a small town now city called
Nakuru. It used to be a village city. I
mean village town but now it's quite
grown in the past two
decades. And I'm your usual African
child not middle income at all. So,
let's say if if uh any of the big NOS
were taking photos of kids when I was
growing up as they do right now, I'll
likely be on the image of one of those
pictures cuz I was brought up in Islam.
Uh but I mean, I'm gifted and I I'm
grateful for that gift is that I I
leaned towards mathematics and and
sciences. So, I I was really good at
that. At least my mom tells me since I
was a child, I was always good at that.
And that led me to where I am. I used to
think I had an a very inspirational
maths teacher. She was called Mrs. Lois
Cole. Unfortunately, she passed away a
few years back and she was my maths high
school teacher. She truly inspired me to
be my best. She would tell me, "The way
you approach mathematics is very
different from other people. The way you
problem solve is very different from
other people." And you know, as a
teenager, when you're told things like
that, they hype you and they work on
your small teenage ego. and you really
want to prove that you're this you're
worth this trust from this person. And
so when I went to university, I I I went
I went to a Christian liberal arts
university, African Nazarene University.
They didn't they only had three programs
at the time I was going to university.
They had theology, they had commerce,
and they had computer science. And for
me uh it was an obvious one because when
I went through them the curriculum and
the course content maths made up a
majority of what I was going to do in my
first year at uni and and for me that
was just it was just natural selection
towards computer science and I I loved
uh computer science and I loved
programming in my first programming
language was in Pascal. I always tell
people most people I work with I've
worked with in in at Google or Microsoft
they they use computing since they were
kids. I I started touching my first
computer when I was at university and
they taught me everything from typing to
to being able to format your pro your
your
your work on a on a on an excel sheet or
a word document. So I started computing
literally at university. That's my first
computer at university and loved it. I
loved the ability of programming and
being able to manipulate this machine to
do what I wanted to do. And so I fell in
love with with uh with programming and
and writing code. And I always tell
people we used to run quote unquote run
our programs on paper. Uh so because you
don't have we didn't have enough uh
computers for to go around to everyone.
So when you go to a computer lab, you
you had already written out your your
code on a piece of paper, you go and
type it out. Mhm. and hopefully there
are no bugs and so that in the next
person can be able to use the computer.
So that's how I started but it did not
stop me. For me my big I let's say the
my big aha moment was in my my my
quarter life crisis of when I was 23 I
got to go and work very in a similar
situation to where I was born in a in a
slam in Nairobi and I saw the human
suffering
um in a in a in a mature way. You know,
when you're a kid, this is part of your
life. So, it you don't know any other.
But when you've been exposed to a
different type of life and you come
back, you realize, oh my god, what am I
doing with my life? How can I make a
difference to these people's lives? And
that is what has inspired me the rest of
my life. So, I combine what I love the
most. I love mathematics. I love code. I
love technology. But I'm very very
realistic that I was born in Africa for
a reason and I apply what I know and my
gifting towards elevating human um
flourishing uh increasing human
flourishing in Africa from poverty to
thriving and it's not just amount of
livelihoods or just getting out of
poverty. It's making it's increasing
hope and thriving and yeah that is
that's what inspires me. So I after uni
I worked I went on to graduate school at
the University of Cape Town. Then I got
to work with Google. I got to work with
Microsoft. And so I got exposed to work
with the best in the world in the
engineering team to learn how to build
for billions of people. And that's I
always say I sharpened my skills with
the very best and my sword with the very
best so that I can apply it at home and
that that is what inspires me. Well,
fantastic. What a great story. Uh you
love math, you love computers, uh but
you took it upon even when you were in a
university unlike a lot of kids who
start at 3, four, five. But I think uh
what's really inspiring is your mission
of taking poverty to prosperity. Uh
Shiko, I think that that's a fantastic
uh situation. Shiko, the digital
landscape in Africa is changing quite
rapidly. It's a young population. Uh
tell our listeners who are in many cases
to be very frank with you don't know
much about what's happening in Africa.
What's happening with uh the world of AI
in Africa? Just briefly if you can
update our listeners in terms of uh what
is happening to AI adoption in the
continent. So even before I start
talking about AI adoption, let's go back
to like technology adoption. So my
graduate school uh my PhD actually uh I
explored on how mobile especially mobile
internet was going to change Africa's
landscape and that was 15 years ago and
when I look back now all the like
hypothesis we have they've actually come
to pass um there's 90 more than 90% um
mobile mobile connectivity penetration
and access on the continent so
connectivity is no longer the problem
that you're trying to solve 15 years ago
Right. Mhm. Um over 60% of uh Africans
have access to a mobile phone. That
means every household has a mobile
phone. It might be a a a basic phone or
what we call a feature phone or
something called a smart a much phone
which is a smart plus feature phone. But
there is some sort of connectivity and
access of mobile connectivity. So the
challenge that is there right now is
around smartphone with high capability
where the the current penetration is
just a little less than 40% and there
are many many people who are working
towards that. So when connectivity is
not a problem it's just now the device
part of it then we in a good place we
not just cabling the continent we can
actually make it happen. So for us then
it becomes a an opportunity cuz every
every time somebody speaks about AI the
first thing that comes to to their mind
is the Oculus uh heads headsets or a
robot or something quite fancy. But what
does how does AI manifest itself on the
continent of Africa is a question that
we need to be able to ask and
interrogate ourselves. As I mentioned
over 90% mobile phone penetration and
access, right? What does that actually
translate? It means that mobile money
penetration on the continent is quite
high. I'm from Kenya and Kenya is the
highest per capita user of digital
financial services. Yeah. We beat any
other place in the world by miles. Yeah.
So if you're able to use mobile mobile
money and what you call digital mobile
digital financial services, what does
that how does that translate to things
like AI? And that's when I when I'm
talking to like policy makers around AI,
I say but we've been using this
technology for a long time and it's like
how is how do you think they determine
how much money they going to give you as
a small loan on your mobile phone? They
use AI. They take all your behavior via
how many SMSs do you send, how many
calls do you send, how much money do you
receive and based on all these data, I'm
able to determine that pury can be able
to receive 5,000 Kenya shillings and
they're able to pay it back in in in 3
months, right? And and by breaking down
AI in a very applicable manner is that
when that's when you start seeing
reality of what the implication of this
technology will be on the continent. So
it's no longer about Oculus uh plus or
prime or pro. It's about how am I
applying this technology to my everyday
life based on the infrastructure that I
currently have. Right. The second one I
always say is um so we in within this
week that's why I'm in DC. We are going
to be showcasing um one of our platforms
uh around just a caregiver platform for
moms. Mhm. Yeah. So again going back to
a bit of numbers, WhatsApp is one of the
I guess highest used social network per
Capital Y. It's it creates community. It
creates the right types of quote and
quote privacy. It has all these like
communial uh and community based um
features that people love and use. So in
every every WhatsApp group that I am in,
somebody's always asking a question. Oh,
have you seen this uh rush on your
child? Or have you seen uh this how do I
get my child to love maths or all of
these questions, right? What if we build
something that is able to allow moms to
get high quality advice? Yeah. On their
WhatsApp groups, right? And you build a
bot that is part of those conversation,
is able to learn. So that's one of the
key things that we have learned. Again,
not Oculus, not a robot, but something
that is very practical. And let me bring
it even closer home. There's one for
every 3,500 doctor I mean
3005, 100 people, there's one doctor for
every 3,500 people on the continent of
Africa. And that is a good that's a good
number, right? If you go to specialist
care like pathologist, there's 3,000
pathologists for 1.5 billion people on
the African continent. So this becomes
real now. What what AI can do? What if
I'm able to take photos of my my disease
or or if I'm a medic and a medic here I
don't mean somebody who's going to
medical school is somebody who's wearing
our lab coat behind a counter is able to
take a photos and put them on a group
and they're able to get support from
people around the world or that they're
able to get first diagnosis based on
other photos similar to this that have
been diagnosed previously then it
becomes real. So for me AI becomes
practical, not just another hype word,
not just another thing that we can talk
about. It becomes like a a solution
provider to Africa's most persistent
problem. I always say for many of the
world every time like I I'm traveling I
I hear people talk about AI for that it
is like a nice to have. Oh it will
increase productivity and efficiency.
For us it's a matter of life and death.
So one of the conversations I've been
having, we're doing this AI and health
project. Hopefully we can be able to
launch by the end of May. And all the
key things every time I talk I talk to
somebody here in the US, they say but
all the models in the US are like at 80%
um uh success rate or accuracy rate. I'm
saying um you're comparing 80% accuracy
to no accuracy rate at all. Yeah. So
somebody who cannot access a pathologist
would rather have their pictures have an
80% accuracy rate because they posted on
a bot and the body is saying okay you
have 10% likelihood you have cancer.
Yeah. Rather than we don't know what's
wrong with you. You have a pain you die
and nobody tells you what's wrong with
with that.
Uh so so for me it is it is things like
that that makes for me a difference is
that what how can we make AI something
practical and useful for our continent.
It's not just a hype word it is a
reality for us. Yes. So uh Shiko you
raised some uh incredible points
especially for our listeners. As you
said, AI is not an Oculus VR AR uh
device. It's in some cases when you talk
to people, you know, as you said, and
I've seen it personally. I was in Kenya
a few months ago. The digital financial
systems are incredible. I I I'm not sure
if it's Empasa or Empasa or things. It's
everywhere. And they have probably been
using AI from fraud detection, from the
amount of things. Anyway, it's been
behind the scenes, but I think what
you're talking about is uh even more
relevant when you talk about education.
You you talked about the WhatsApp groups
for moms. uh you know one of the big
things that everybody at least in in the
western world is talking about
personalized education for children
because you know every child you your uh
preferences your uh you know things are
different than me in terms of your
aptitude for learning is different than
mine but if we are teaching the same
things to
everybody and then you're talking about
the health uh
opportunities Are uh the leaders in uh
Africa receptive to your message about
this uh access to health care that they
can now get uh access to education that
they can get. Yes, they are. Yeah. So I
I'll talk about health then I'll come
back and talk about the education part
of it. Right. So we've been blessed as a
team to be able as as we call ourselves
the skunkquark of Africa to be able to
work very closely with some governments
across Africa. In fact during co using
an AI type of technology yeah is we
enable our government to be very
proactive in responding to the pandemic.
I feel like we were some of the most
proactive governments in do in in in
responding to COVID. Why? Because we use
data. We use data and modeling to show
where will this disease lead to if we do
X Y and Z and giving different scenarios
and enabling the government say here are
four possible scenarios you choose one I
mean I am a data scientist I'm not um a
policy maker but here if you do this
just expect this outcome and you're
always making fun is our very first
model our very first model was uh to
show where will be the highest mobidity
based on co I debts based on
co-orbidities across the the the across
the country and that map until today
stands right. The number of deaths that
happened in that in that next two years
were matching almost point on point
apart from like west part of a of Kenya
where we had taken HIV as a coorbidity.
everything else worked out. And when you
show these numbers to uh to our policy
makers, they're actually quite receptive
because they realize that we have to use
data, we have to use these technologies
for actually uh uh being being proactive
in response into disease. So right now
we work with like county like sub sub
subcount
um we call them county governments to
enable them create their own dashboards
uh model look at a at at technology and
data specifically to do that using
natural language pro um processing NLP
uh tools to be able to respond to things
that cannot be responded in normal in in
normal technology. So for example, we
are building a mental health board with
one of the
uh counties. Why? Because mental health
is a big problem. Coming back to
education, right now in Kenya and a few
other countries in East Africa,
education has been has been put to a
standstill because of the ongoing
floods, right? Mhm. And what is
happening is like kids in private school
are still going going to school which
means that these kids at the point where
they're graduating from high schools cuz
they all graduate from high school
whether you're private school or not of
a public school and you're going to
university you're going to all go to the
same university whether public school
where you came from a public school or
private school. What happens is that
these kids are always going to be at
disadvantage because for three weeks
you're not going to school because your
your school was flooded and now it's or
your school is like um um a resource
center for for flood victims, right? So
what would happen if I'm able to provide
personalized education to these children
based on where they are? So they don't
have to go back four weeks or a year as
it happened in COVID. They can continue
with where they are based on their own
aptitude. And it doesn't have to be uh
anything complex. Again, it a small
feature phone or a basic phone can be
able to do this by taking a quick
aptitude test of the child's ability to
do X, Y, and Z and continue with it. Is
it being done elsewhere in the world?
Yes. Can it be done in Africa? Yes. With
less complexity. And I have like uh I
I'll shout out to my to a friend of
mine, Zeraki, who are doing something
very similar. They are personalizing
content for kids and schools. It's not
only what they love what they're doing
is they're looking at from a school
point of view and then from a child's
point of view and a parental point of
view and providing this kind of uh
support to the schools and the children
and the teachers to to be able to to do
this. So yes, it's happening in a very
non-American and British way, but it's
happening and I'm really proud about the
way we've gone around looking at this um
emerging technology to to be applicable
to our continent based on our own
restraints.
Well, that's uh fantastic. I'm so glad
to hear that. But that leads me to uh
another point. Uh Shikle, there has been
a lot of um and we have had a lot of
guests especially who come in from non
uh US uh countries where the worry is
that AI becomes a western dominated
English language Silicon Valley based.
Africa is rich with so many languages,
cultures, history. I mean it just is
incredible.
Tell our listeners is there what is
happening in terms of retaining the
culture and language is that happening
when you obviously
education, health and everything is also
very important but culture is as
important languages are as important as
some of these things. So what's what's
going on as far as that is concerned?
So we released a paper in uh in February
where we're calling it the force horse
uh the four horse uh main model uh to AI
creating an AI ecosystem and one of
those uh okay let me just walk them
through quickly. We had uh data set and
uh data sets and data structures. We had
talent. We had infrastructure and we had
use cases. I've spoken in the past few
minutes about the use cases that we are
using, right? And we we still have a
challenge uh around infrastructure. It's
going to be expensive. We acknowledge
that. In fact, one of the more
controversial but I feel like more
proactive approaches that uh we've been
pushing for is everybody's trying to buy
a new uh compute u infrastructure in the
US. Why don't you give us your second
hand? Your 5-year-old one, we'll use it
because we need we need some form of
infrastructure on the continent to be
able to have local researchers working
on African problems and that is the
talent and infrastructure is closely
linked. But even more closely linked is
that the fuel that runs the foundation
that runs any AI ecosystem is the data.
And everybody has been talking about
data sets and building data sets. But we
always are pushing back and say in
Africa it's not just about data sets.
It's also the the the the data systems
that go with these data sets because a
single line uh of of words in Africa can
mean five different things. I always
give this example of my son who's always
in the back when I'm talking about this
stuff. His name is Kyama. KMA means
miracle in my language, right? KMA means
a club of people in something in in
another language. KMA also means the day
of judgment in in another language. So
when somebody is saying Kyama without
understanding the context and the data
systems that he's been speaking about
they will always a model will always
spit out what it's been fed and usually
they they they'll pick whatever is most
used which is usually not correct right
so we are pushing for what we are
calling data systems is that our
language is quite rich I always tell
people people say it's 2,000 African
languages but it's 7,000
uh sub languages Right? So that's a lot
of languages. But the hope is and the
silver uh lining in this is that many
African countries they speak at least
two languages. So there's a mixed
language approach to life. Yeah. So in
Kenya we have Shen in the West African
they have different types of pigeon. Um
in South Africa is also in South Africa
they have mixed language. is why don't
we build models that are accepting these
mixed
languages towards our fulf languages and
that's what we are doing. So we doing uh
in Kenya we're doing something called a
SWA English model that allows for both
kisuahili and English and some mother
tongue languages all in there to be able
to have as many people accommodated in
this as possible. In doing that we are
also building the data systems around
it. Knowing that this word can have five
different meanings based on the context
that it is using it which is the English
language is quite lazy when when it
comes to doing that but we cannot afford
to be lazy in our context because then
you will be feeding the the model the
wrong languages. So we are very clear of
that. Uh I know in um Laa and Masakan
are doing some language uh work. I know
Mozilla in Africa is also doing some
language work. there's lots of work
doing because we acknowledge that Africa
is a very complex uh place when it comes
to language and context. So you cannot
just speak about language without
talking about context what we're calling
data systems from us from our end. So
that that for us is very important and
there are local scientists, local um
local talent that is committed to doing
this is just that we need to solve the
huge um elephant in the room which is uh
compute uh which is quite expensive but
it's something that we are working.
We're not allowing that to hold us back.
Yeah. So uh the big elephant in the room
uh is compute. The other uh big elephant
would be talent. What is Africa doing
about
creating uh this expertise and talent
because of uh you know where you are
going is an incredible journey but that
journey can only happen if the right
talent is there. Is there some attention
being put in Africa for that? Yes. So
two weeks ago um yeah two weeks ago we
we held um the very first of its kind um
a
ministerial round table with 21
ministers from across Africa in person.
I was very happy with that on on the AI
system on the continent. So one of the
key things that came out is new what is
they're calling the Nairobi declaration
is is the building of an AI council for
ministers of ICTs of the continent right
that is number one in there is a very
deliberate push towards workforce
development for emerging tech and AI
especially and this means that it's a
commitment by each of these governments
to have a trained pipeline line of um AI
talent and AI talent does not mean
machine learning engineers only. Yeah,
it means the young people who are doing
data collection and annotation as well
as data scientists who are cleaning up
the data and making it usable and
useful, right? And then all and and and
of course the male engineers. So there's
a very deliberate effort from the very
top from across the country. So it's not
just a country by country effort is we
are working to together towards this
workforce development for emerging tech
in Africa. So I'm very happy with that
work. It's
progressing. I you know managing many
many um countries is hard but it's it's
happening. There's already momentum
across the continent to doing this. So
workforce development is one of those
things. The second part of it is working
with Africa diaspora who are already in
this space. Yeah. And I'm really excited
about this work cuz having having worked
out of home and having met Africa
diaspora across the globe literally we
have very gifted talent. We are running
many of these multinationals is how do
we tap into this talent to make sure
that they are doing that. So uh I'm not
allowed to talk about something we are
working on yet but there's something we
are working on with African diasporas in
in the US uh to just try and build again
a pipeline of talent back home and also
them giving back home in a sort of not
just sending cash but also sending part
of their um uh intell intelligence um
back home. Yeah. Well, that's fantastic.
So, uh, emphasis on ICT ministers in
Africa on workforce and there is a
diaspora effort that is going on. So,
that's great to hear because as you
said, compute is very important which
you're working on, but talent workforce
is as important. Um, Shiko, let's just
talk about a little bit about AI
regulations. the African Union came out
with a draft uh AI uh you know
regulation uh draft document and you uh
were you know you said that let's first
you know focus on prioritizing AI
development before we get into uh
regulation. So can you just elaborate a
little bit about uh the draft just
briefly and why you think we we you need
to
focus more on AI development before
getting too much into regulation.
So what happens in Africa is that most
of the time is somebody will come up
with an a document a policy document a
regulatory document without fully
understanding the context that this and
the implication that this document will
have down the line. What you're saying
for AI is it's such a strategic and
important technology that if we start
regulating it at this point we'll never
be fully um uh what is it called never
fully understand what have done for us
as a continent right and what is
happening right now is the people who
are builders are building and then the
people who work on regulation are
working on regulation there is no
conversation or crosspollination of
information between this so what happens
is one day you wake up and somebody has
put together a document that really has
a huge implication on what you're doing.
Yeah. And that's why our team, we have
builders, we are continuously building
your building stuff. On the the other
hand, we are pushing for for what is it
called for for for
nonregulation. Um but guardrails. Yeah.
We're not saying don't reg don't don't
don't put guard rails. We're saying
don't regulate. Don't don't put things
in place that you don't understand. And
for us, you're always going back to
Empressa. And our then minister of
finance decided not to regulate. He
said, "Let's see where it goes." And
then when we have seen it where it goes,
then we will be able to find ways and
places to regulate. And that has worked.
Emphasis is not fully regulated up to
this point. Why? Because we are
constantly look innovating around it.
And that is the same stance we should be
taking with AI is we don't know where
this technology is taking us. We don't
know where it's going. What we need to
do is put measures in place to protect
human dignity and human human lives, but
on the other hand allow for innovation
to go and be built and and that that is
the argument. So for example, the AI um
framework by the AU is pretty much
saying okay let's put some regulations
down the line but let's put some guards
right now which I totally agree right
cuz we need to focus on what time will
we focus on workforce development if we
are busy trying to regulate we don't
know what workforce we should be
developing we we not very even fully
understand what is the kind of workforce
we should be doing we should be
developing let's focus on developing the
workforce let's develop focusing focus
on putting the infrastructure in place.
Let's focus on getting um what is it
called getting our data sets which we
don't even know the fully the the extent
of how our data sets is going to be even
collected and stored and organized.
Let's not preempt. Let's just do it fast
and we'll find ways where people can
take advantage. Let's learn from the
world. Let's have an observing posture
without killing our innovation. That
that is my take. Yeah. So you said uh
basically that let's let uh innovation
flow and then we'll figure out the
regulation just like you've done with
Empasa with the digital payment
infrastructure. Is there any thought of
uh collaboration? I mean the EU has the
uh at least come out with the EU AI act.
Uh there has to be some harmonization
that happens because today companies are
global. um uh you know they work in
Europe, they work in Africa, they work
in North America, they work in Asia and
if we have this patchwork of laws which
it seems like we're going to have and
China is going to do its own thing. Um
what are your thoughts in terms of uh
international collaboration on uh
regulation?
So in terms of international
collaboration, I think there needs to be
um in the same way you have SDGs and
operating um operational principles.
There needs to be a principles that we
all working from. Yeah. But we also need
to understand that each of the why why
are people regulating? I always say
people regulate out of the need for
sovereignity and out of the need
for creating profits, right? Making
money. Um so if it's not making you
money I it's protecting your
sovereignity as a country right so we
while we have some guiding principle at
a global level I would say the that's
the collaboration that needs to go into
like these are the key principles that
we should be working towards as as as a
country as a region as a even as a
company right but also we need to be
able to understand our own context and
regulate and build regulation from our
own context or not regulate from our own
context cuz the moment we all bulk
ourselves up into one single hole then
you force everybody to adapt into this
and we've seen it with GDPR right and
the data protection we have seen that
what that has happened I mean what that
has happened because we all copied the
European version of it uh it becomes
really hard even to work with other
parts of the world right we've seen
companies literally scrapping themselves
from or putting themselves from one part
of the world to the other because they
can't meet those stringent um
requirements from from one part of the
world is how do we make make
uh the world as diverse as possible but
also protecting human the our humanity
and our dignity as humanity but also the
sovereignity of the different states
that is how I'd approach it. Oh, that's
uh so what you're saying is protect the
sovereignty of different states. How
about uh sovereignty of data? Uh there's
a concern that you know African data
being concentrated outside the
continent. How can uh AI regulation
address issues of data sovereignty and
privacy within Africa? Hence, I mean
that's that's what I was talking about
the sovereignity. It's about data
um uh data sovereignity because right
now everybody defines what data
sovereignity looks like for them and for
us. Mhm. Uh and we
like right now we are still still
struggling what what sovereignity means
for us because everybody's saying oh put
everything on the cloud you don't have
enough money to do this our cabling I
always give the this this example is
that when half of the continent was
offline because the cables of the West
African cause to our cut off we still
very dependent on other other entities
for our own sovereignity and that needs
to be protected. Hence why we cannot say
we are going to have all be ramped up
into one single regulatory uh framework
because then we lose that we lose the
one leveraging power we have on the
content at the moment and that's our
data a because mostly it does not exist
in a transferable sharable manner but
what happens when it is in that state
what will we do yeah how do we transfer
that and that is the question that we
should be asking ourselves and that's
why what that's what we should be
protecting because we still have like um
what is it called? A bargaining chip on
our end and we need to protect that.
Yes. Yeah. Protect the bargaining chip.
Uh Shiko, one of the concerns that I
hear from guests, even members of
Congress and Senate, I want your
thoughts is AI is moving so so so
rapidly. Every day there's something new
multimodal agents this that rag etc. How
can AI regulation keep up uh with these
changes? I mean you put a regulation and
then something new AGI comes in etc. How
how does one do that? So AI will not
will not keep up with with technology. I
mean regulation will not keep up with uh
innovation. It has never done it. It if
we try to do this will be the first time
in history uh it it cannot happen. What
we need to do is build very lucid uh
frame frameworks and principles that are
protecting very fundamental things.
Yeah. Like the bill of rights like the
right to be human, the right to be
alive. Yeah. Uh the right to talk to
somebody else and communicate. Yeah. And
if anything implicates on that, then we
we we go back to like okay, what needs
to change? Right. Mhm. AI I mean
regulation will never will never and
shall never catch up with with
innovation and explain this waste of AI
cuz every time we think we have gotten
somewhere somebody else comes up with
something that throws everything out of
the window and we have to start from
scratch. Hence our argument is that stop
pushing for regulation push for
frameworks that protects the humanity
our humanness but allows us to be able
to flourish and and and build. Yeah.
So focus on frameworks uh and you know
the bill of rights fundamental bill of
rights uh shiko what uh what is the
thought in Africa about open source
closed source we have a big debate at
least in the US about that how how is
that playing out in the rest of the
world so funny thing is like just this
morning okay which I mean this morning
in Kenya time right we had this
discussion So we have some models. I'm
very passionate about being able to be
catalytic, right? Is when you build
something, allow others people to build
on top of it so that you can have much
bigger impact. Cuz if I try and do mice
by myself, we'll never be able to have
the impact that if other people can be
able to build on top of it, they're able
to have much more impact and that is
pretty much what open source is is
after. However, on the other hand, there
are people who are saying that even if
we open source, the big big tech is
going to take it and go and make money.
lots of money and become profitable. How
do we benefit from this? And for us is
how do you become smart around how
you're going to open source some of
these things to have the highest impact
but also to make sure that your common
um creative common license also has an
implication on whatever thing even big
tech will ever build on top of this.
It's being very smart around it. So yes,
the argument is still there especially
around data and data sets in Africa and
how do we utilize and build models that
yes we are protecting ourselves but
somebody's not going to be extremely
rich by taking what we've built and
building things on top of it. I mean
honestly if we were all like nice human
beings we trying to build the world and
make it a better place for everyone
uh open source will be the way but we
know that we we live in a crude and
cruel world and somebody's going to be
as make try and make as much money as
possible from the open sourced work and
so it's just an argument and balance
towards what what is what do you do as a
person or a community or an organization
to have the highest impact. Yeah. Well,
that's great. Um, Shiko, when you look
to the future, what is your vision for a
responsible and inclusive AI ecosystem
in Africa? I mean, it goes back to what
I've just said. It it goes back to we we
need to look at AI as an en uh as an as
an enabling technology to human
flourishing, right? And yes, there are
going to be some evil pockets of it,
right? And for me my my vision of the
future is where a service that I could
not access I can access at a fraction of
the cost and at a fraction of the time
because this technology has enabled me
to do this and the underlying technology
information technologies and has already
been put in place that is my my
connectivity is in place my devices are
in place my uh my data is in place and
I'm able to just access these things
because I'm just human and I have the
the right as everybody else in the world
to flourish and that that for me is my
vision of the future when it comes to
technology. Yeah. So allowing humans to
flourish. Um Shiko just a question uh
mobile technology allowed Africa and a
lot of other parts of the world to just
jump through an entire cycle of
technology. I mean if you look at the
digital payment adoption in Africa in
some other parts of that world it's much
higher than in western countries. I mean
you know people there don't think twice
about swiping even for the smallest
items. Do you think AI has that
potential to cause that big jump for
Africa? You talked about health and
education but I'm sure there are many
others. Do you think this is Africa's
movement to take that big jump?
Yes, it is Africa's moment to take that
leap and it does not leap. It's it's
leaping in faith that you will learn
well but also leaping in practicality of
access to this indefinite amount of
knowledge and resources that you never
have accessed before. Yeah. And for me
it goes back to things that um somebody
said I think is uh
sand from Google who say that AI is um
is the best representation of human
humanness and humanity because it's been
created by human knowledge. This human
knowledge has not been accessible to
Africa. Why? Because people have put
artificial boundaries to what Africa can
and cannot do. Right? Right now with my
check GPT I can do literally I can
produce some of the best papers. Why?
Because I'm no longer uh stopped by a a
firewall a pay wall somewhere to access
something. Yeah. The same way with like
medical advice with all these things.
Yeah. If you're consolidating human
knowledge, we're able to access it in
Africa without artificial walls that had
been put for Africans not to access
these things because you're just in the
African continent. Yeah. On the other
hand, Africa is now able to influence
the rest of the world because they we
have knowledge they don't have. Yeah.
And we able to actually allow people to
understand who we are as Africa from our
point of view. Well, that's fantastic.
So, this is Africa's moment. Shikle, we
you have entrepreneurs listening, you
have lawmakers listening. this is uh
your opportunity at the end to kind of
what is a message you want them because
as I said a lot of them don't know about
Africa but I this is my belief as I said
that this could be a moment to as you
said make that leap what is a message
that you would like to convey to our
listeners entrepreneurs lawmakers think
tanks etc as to what's happening in
Africa and how they can partner with
Africa towards this So Africa showed the
world how to use the mobile phone
literally. Yeah. In its fullness, right?
We have shown the world how to use
digital uh financial services, mobile
management to be more specific. And we
are going to to show the world how AI
can actually improve people's lives.
It's no longer for us a matter of
productivity or efficiency. It's a
matter of necessity. And we are going to
do it. Don't don't be left behind uh in
this journey.
Well, Shiko, as we wrap up another
enlightening episode of Regulating AI, I
want to really thank you uh tremendously
for sharing your expertise and
perspectives. Really from your
groundbreaking work at Kala to your
contributions in shaping AI regulation
and digital in the African Union. you
really, you know, exemplify the pivotal
role of diverse voices in driving fair
and equitable AI regulation. As we
navigate the complexities of this
rapidly evolving field, let's continue
this meaningful dialogue and we'd love
to have you back again. There were so
many other things I wanted to ask, but
maybe we'll keep that for next time.
Till until then, we want to stay
informed, stay engaged, stay inspired.
Shiko, this has been fantastic. Thanks
for taking the time with us. Thank you.
Thank you so much for having me and uh
thank you so much again for the
conversations that you have started. Oh,
thank you so much. Yeah.
[Music]
