putting our dollars where our values are
and incentivizing in this market AI
innovation in those spaces we already
talked about education and healthcare.
And I think that if we do that here in
the United States, [music] if we protect
NIST, if we protect NSF, both the
workers and the dollars there, we can
lead in this space and [music] I think
win this competition around AI and in so
doing help to win this competition
between democracy [music] and
authoritarianism.
Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast
with Sanjay Puri. AI is changing the
world faster than rules can keep up. So,
how do we protect people without killing
progress? Each week, Sanjay brings you
inside [music] conversations with global
leaders, policy makers, and innovators
who are wrestling with that exact
question. So, if you're curious about
the future of technology and how it's
governed, you're in the right place.
Today on the Regulating AI podcast,
we're pleased to welcome Congresswoman
Sarah [music] McBride of Delaware. From
breaking historic barriers to shaping
policy for a digital future, she brings
urgency, empathy, [music]
and tenacity to the big questions of how
we govern AI.
>> Congressman McBride, welcome to the
Regulating AI podcast.
Thanks so much for having me. I'm really
[music] thrilled to be here and excited
for this conversation.
>> According to you, what would be the
appropriate balance between this
conundrum we have of innovation versus
regulation? People say, "Hey, we don't
want to hold things back because
innovation, this is transformative
technology. How do we balance that?" Uh,
Congressman,
>> this is obviously an incredibly exciting
time. It's a pivotal time. It's a time
of significant opportunity and great
challenge when it comes to technological
innovation and specifically AI. I
believe that we have to strike the right
balance, the the Goldilocks solution, if
you will, when it comes to guaranteeing
that we've got appropriate regulation,
but not so much that we stifle the US's
capacity to um innovate and of course
lead in this space globally. My feeling
is that the Trump administration's
approach has centered corporations
rather than a really human- centered
approach to AI regulation. I also think
that it's used inappropriately coercive
uh efforts to stifle the innovation or
the regulation we're seeing at the state
level. Look, I would much rather see
federal regulation than a patchwork of
state regulation. But in the absence of
meaningful federal human- centered
regulation in this space that strikes
that right balance, I don't think that
we should be undermining the capacity of
states to meet the needs of their own
constituents uh and guarantee that
they're creating appropriate regulations
that provide both protection for
individuals but also guard rails for
innovators to be able to follow as they
try to find a path forward. And so I
think the Trump administration has uh
sort of taken a sledgehammer to state
regulations or at least tried to take a
sledgehammer to state regulation through
co coercive means. Um but I also don't
think that they're approaching this in a
way that is really truly human-
centered. We can find that goldilock
solution in a human- centered way and I
don't think that that's what we're
seeing at the federal level right now.
So Congresswoman, we have a lot of uh
entrepreneurs that come on our show and
they say, you know, large companies, the
big guys or the large companies can have
big teams that can work with a patchwork
of regulations whether it's California,
Colorado, etc. But if you're a small
company trying to navigate that, then
navigate the EU AI act etc. that becomes
fairly difficult for them. So we we are
in that drill as you said. How do we
thread that needle? Any thoughts on how
do we do that?
>> Well, I think the way we thread it is by
adopting federal solutions. I I think
people are absolutely right to not want
a patchwork of different regulations
state by state. But we can't let
inaction at the federal level or frankly
in my mind actions that benefit existing
corporations, large corporations over
both individuals and smaller innovators.
Let that take hold at the federal level.
I think we need to have a federal
solution. I want Congress to be
proactive in this. And I want to make
sure that as we find a bipartisan path
forward on a AI regulation that we're
we're not undermining some critical
regulatory safeguards and guard rails
that some states have adopted. Now, if
we have a federal solution, I do believe
that that should preempt the patchwork
of state solutions, but we're not there
yet, unfortunately. I also think that we
have to be at large regardless of this
conversation around state
[clears throat] and federal solutions.
We have to be very mindful about
bringing down the barriers that small
businesses have that individual
innovators have in being able to
participate in this really exciting
space. I just had a round table with
small businesses uh earlier this month
in Delaware and one of the things that I
was hearing from those small businesses
is they're very excited about
incorporating AI into their company, but
it's incredibly capital intensive for
them to find safe AI. And I think we
have to make sure that when we're
talking about the weight of the federal
government, we're bringing to bear our
purse in leveling the playing field both
between innovators and potential AI
consumers, between large corporations
and smaller businesses. Something that
doesn't exist, I think, enough right
now. and we're shooting ourselves in the
foot when we're defunding and firing
people at NSF and NIST, which
historically has helped to level the
playing field by bringing public dollars
into play and public innovation into
play uh so that the the really
meaningful and intensive innovation
isn't just happening in existing large
corporations. the differences in AI
policy in Congress. Are there areas
where you see some potential for
bipartisan cooperation on AI regulation?
>> I do. I'm proud to be on both the
foreign affairs committee and the
science space and technology committee
and I think that there are real
opportunities for us to work together in
a bipartisan fashion on a host both
regulatory safeguards and of course
opportunities for us to bring to bear
federal p public and private sector
dollars to innovate in areas like health
care and and education. But we've also,
like I said, seen seen really good
bipartisan legislation pass already be
signed into to law already around uh
deep fakes, for instance. We've seen
we've seen bipartisan opportunities
around federal dollars and uh harnessing
federal dollars. We've seen bipartisan
opportunities on a whole host different
areas of innovation that I've been
excited to see. I think all of us can
agree that education and public
education is a place where we should be
capitalizing and maximizing the
opportunities with AI. I think all of us
agree that healthcare is a space where
we should be capitalizing and maximizing
on the opportunities of AI right now.
How can we uh balance uh maintaining a
competitive advantage in AI but also
maybe establishing
international norms or working across uh
the globe which is again the difficult
issue that is happening for us. Um, one
of the reasons why I was interested in
serving on the foreign affairs committee
uh was because I believe right now
globally we are seeing a struggle
between authoritarianism
and democracy. While I always want the
United States to lead on innovation from
an economic standpoint, I believe that
when it comes to AI, having the United
States lead internationally is also at
the heart of that struggle between
democracy and authoritarianism. If China
leads, not only do they get the dollars,
not only do they get the jobs, not only
do do in some cases they get access to a
lot of data and information that they
could use for negative purposes, but the
values that will be at the heart of the
technologies that they produce will be
the values of that regime. It will be a
a a pursuit of AI that undermines
privacy that increases control and
surveillance. If we are leading in this
space, we bring to bear our values in
that innovation. AI that respects
privacy. AI that harnesses the public
good. AI that fulfills our values. Um,
and I think that's critical not just for
us. I think that's critical for the
future of the world and the future of
humanity. And so I'm deeply passionate
about the US leading in this space for
all of those reasons. Now I think right
now there are important lessons that we
can learn from the EU in this space.
They're going to be elements of their
regulations that are too ownorous.
They're going to be elements of their
regulation that should be replicated.
And so I think we're lucky that the EU
has almost served as a laboratory of
democracy on AI so that we can take best
practices and dis disregard some of the
parts that don't work as we craft
hopefully in a bipartisan fashion that
Goldilocks regulatory solution for the
United States. Um I think we should put
real focus on transparency uh in this
space. I think we should put real focus
on putting our dollars where our values
are and incentivizing in this market AI
innovation in those spaces we already
talked about education and healthcare.
And I think that if we do that here in
the United States, if we protect NIST,
if we protect NSF, both the workers and
the dollars there, we can lead in this
space and I think win this competition
around AI and in so doing help to win
this competition between democracy and
authoritarianism. You talked about uh
making sure workers, you always have
championed workers rights including paid
family leave, minim increasing minimum
wage. AI
quietly is transforming our workforce.
Whether the AI companies say it or not,
it is just a fact. According to you as a
champion, what policies are needed to
make sure AIdriven economic
transformation also benefits workers and
not just these big tech companies and
their shareholders? Because that's again
a balance which is critical. Uh
Congressman,
>> well I I think the answer to this
question lies sort of on on two fronts.
One because you're absolutely right. AI
in the challenges and pitfalls that it
presents could have a really negative
effect on the health of our workforce
and to your point around economic
inequality, a dynamic as it as it
potentially runs the risk of displacing
a lot of workers of widening the wealth
disparity between the wealthy and
everyone else. And so I think there's
two solutions here that we need to make
sure that we are pursuing. One is that
as we pursue innovation in AI, we should
always be looking at it as often as
possible as a complement to human
workers and human skill and human
talent, not as a replacement. I think
that that's absolutely critical,
especially when AI is being utilized to
determine outcomes that could have very
real and significant consequences for
people. So I one I believe that that we
should see it as as something that
augments existing workforce rather than
replaces it. But then two as inevitably
AI increases productivity and therefore
increases the the bounty of that
productivity for the businesses and the
corporations that are benefiting from
it. We also as policy makers need to
recognize that we need to do more to
address wealth inequality in our
society. Um, it's it's why I I I do
believe that we should be uh reforming
our tax system to to more adequately tax
those who are wealth are the wealthiest
in our society. It's why I believe in
social safety net programs like paid
family and medical leave and uh
universal prek. It's why I believe that
we need to make sure that we have
universal health care in this country.
And so I think we have to do more at
large to address wealth inequality. And
we need to recognize that doing so is
that much more urgent because of AI's
capacity to increase productivity,
increase the bouncy and have that then
pocketed by those who are already
powerful and already wealthy.
>> So do you think uh the government has a
role in this displacement which could
potentially happen? McKenzie and
everybody else is there could be large
number and these would could be
potentially white collar jobs. Do you
think there is a role for government in
making sure with those challenges?
Congresswoman,
>> I do. Look, I think I think the the
reality is as we've probably already
seen uh certainly some level of of
displacement and you know, unfortunately
the outcome of technological innovation
throughout history has always resulted
in some level of transition in our
economy and in our workforce. One, I
think AI unlocks some new areas of of
economic opportunity for people. I've
had conversations with leaders in higher
education and leaders at financial
institutions, leaders at the Fed about
the opportunities for new jobs in AI
training and AI education. But I also I
I also think that we have to have some
very serious conversations at large
about what does it look like in a
society
where
there are fewer jobs and how do we
guarantee that everyone has an
appropriate standard and quality
standard of living and quality of life
in an environment where technological
innovation in some cases replaces entire
sectors of our economy? That's a pretty
fundamental question for us. It's one of
the reasons why I think, you know,
people need to understand that AI
represents for us
arguably the single greatest change to
humanity.
Not since the advent of the internet,
not since the industrial revolution. I
would argue that AI presents perhaps the
most significant transformation in
humanity since humans went from nomadic
to stationary agricultural based
societies because AI is going to change
our economy. It's going to change our
productivity. It's also going to change
a lot of things about our emotional
well-being, our sense of connection, our
human connection with one another. And
if we pretend like that that's not going
to happen, at least in the medium and
long term, then we're going to find
ourselves far beyond the far behind the
curve on that. And so I do think we have
to have conversations around policies
like universal basic income and again
portability of benefits so that people
have the kind of peace of mind and
economic security that throughout much
of our history has been the byproduct of
you work at a job, you get paid. And
with that pay, you get a house, you get
all of the goods and services that you
otherwise need to live and to thrive.
And if that's not going to be the
reality in perpetuity or for everyone,
then we can't have a dynamic where
you've got even greater divides between
the halves and the have nots.
>> As you said, uh a transformation of the
American dream as we kind of know it may
be better. Are those conversations or at
least being had by some people in
Congress?
>> I I do think that there are
important conversations. Candidly, I'd
like to see us have more conversations,
not just about the short-term and
immediate effect of AI, but some of
these longer term conversations around
how we organize ourselves in a society
that is radically transformed by
technology. Because you know we can
mitigate the impact. We can mitigate the
the degree especially in the short term
that around abuse. We can mitigate the
displacement of workers in certain
fields. Um and again there there are
some fields where inevitably we should
and have to have essentially human
redundancy to protect us from negative
outcomes. But I would like to see more
conversations with my colleagues about
that long term and how we fundamentally
rethink what policy looks like, what our
economy looks like in that post AI
world.
>> Finally, uh, Congressman, what role do
you think AI should play in delivering
government services, you know, for
citizens? And are there some guard rails
that are necessary? Should there be
restrictions on use of AI in some areas
like criminal justice or benefits
determinations or immigration decisions?
>> Well, there's no question that anyone
who's ever engaged with government has
probably seen the inefficiencies
and the backlogs that too often plague
every part of of our government. And AI
really has the capacity to break those
log jams, to create efficiencies, to
streamline processes, to speed up
decisions, um to speed up processes that
too often result in a a unsustainable
delay for our constituents who are
needing to get whatever decision or
whatever benefit that they need or are
entitled to. But there's no question
that when it comes to government
services, and this is true across our
economy, across our society, there are
some decisions that are of of such
weight and significance for people in
criminal justice or in benefit
determinations that AI and AI alone
present grave risks. Um, we know the
capacity for bias in in AI that
obviously exists in part because of of
of bias both implicit and explicit among
humans that produce it. We know the
capacity for negative outcomes if there
isn't a degree human interaction and
human involvement in those decisions.
And so I think we need to make sure we
have safeguards that prevent um AI only
usage when it comes to decisionm that
has a real intangible consequence for
the American people. Um you know I know
there there there are are some thinkers
who are saying you know in the future
the president's just going to hand over
a lot of his his or her duties to to to
AI. I hope that we as a government
benefit from AI and use it throughout
our our government. But there are
certain things that I I still believe we
absolutely need to make sure that we
have humans making decisions around and
humans involved with. And and let me
just say, you know, again, with
government services, one of the things
that that that I'm really excited about
in my home state of Delaware is that I
think we have a really focused
determination in making Delaware the
kind of destination for innovators that
it has been in the past and it must be
in this space because government
services, when we're talking about
government services, there's a lot of
benefit that can come with AI in
government services. There's a lot of
benefit that can come with government
services being more responsive and
supportive of AI innovators. And I think
Delaware clearly within our Department
of State and our Secretary of State, um
some of the the progress that's being
made in the General Assembly, I think is
demonstrating that not only can AI make
government more responsive for people,
but that our government is now being
responsive to the opportunities that
come with AI. He made a great case for
innovators, entrepreneurs, venture
capitalists to come to Delaware. And I
thought just it was incredible for a
state that is so small in size but
amazing.
>> Delaware has such a long history of
seizing innovation in science and
technology to revolutionize our economy.
Whether it was the innovation at DuPont,
the science that transformed the world
at places like DuPont or of course the
innovation that we saw in the financial
services and financial technology space.
Delaware invented the debit card with
Wisfist in the 60s. Obviously, it was a
pioneer in the credit card with MBNA in
the 90s and the 2000s. Um, we are now
seeing a lot of great innovation in
fintech in our state. This is the next
frontier in Delaware's legacy, seizing
innovation and science and technology to
really transform our world.
>> Congressman, for others, your colleagues
listening in other states, is there a
lesson from Delaware for them? What
makes uh [music] the recipe uh that
makes it so successful for Delaware? You
have colleagues or maybe you don't want
to give away that recipe. I don't know.
>> That's that that that's right. Look, I I
would identify two things that come to
mind here. One is it it really is in our
blood, right? This is part of our
legacy. And and and I'm happy to say
that because other states can't
necessarily replicate that. 200 years of
innovation in [music] Delaware, 200
years of taking risk and seeing the
benefits for ourselves and our world
from those risks. The the second is that
Delaware as a small state, I mean,
you've now had the governor and the sole
member of Congress from our state on
this podcast. [music] And so, you've
probably gathered that Delaware is a
state where everyone gets to know one
another, where we bring people together
to have conversations, where we have,
you know, whether it's consumers or
small businesses or larger corporations
or individual innovators at the table to
inform our policy makers and therefore
to inform our policies. That's something
that is sort of uniquely Delaware in our
approach to governing and in our
approach to creating the kinds of
regulations necessary to find that
Goldilock solution. It's [music] one of
the reasons why I say in the absence of
of of federal solutions, um I I want to
see states like Delaware continue to
lead in creating regulatory sandboxes
and providing the kinds of safeguards
[music] and guard rails that I know a
lot of people are looking for for
certainty and predictability so that
they can really flourish in their
innovation in that space. Yeah, I think
it's a great great model and uh
Congressman McBride, thank you really
for joining us on regulating AI. your
unique perspective in really bridging
technology policy, healthcare equity and
just talked about the legacy of Delaware
for innovative regulation really
provides invaluable insights not just
within the US but outside to your
colleagues around the world and your
emphasis in making sure that AI will
serve all communities equitably is I
think it's very very important. So for
our listeners, I really encourage you to
follow uh Congressman McBride's work
particularly in the Congressional AI
caucus as it continues its deliberations
and we'll continue to bring
conversations with policy makers and
advocates from around the globe as we
continue to shape AI regulation [music]
that's fair, democratic, enforce
innovation. And thank you for listening
to regulating AI enforcement. Thank you
for being on the podcast. Really, really
[music] appreciate it.
>> Thanks for having me.
Thanks for tuning in to the Regulating
AI podcast with Sanjay Puri. If you
enjoy today's conversation, don't forget
to leave a comment. We'd love to hear
what you thought. Share it with someone
curious about the future of EI and join
us next time for more stories and
insights from the leaders shaping what's
ahead right here on the Regulating AI
podcast.
