Yeah, in fact some of the larger
companies Sanjay were sort of supportive
because a lot of that regulatory burden
serves as a moat and keeps out some of
the um younger companies more
independent programmers. So you got to
be very careful about uh discouraging
that I want to do everything I can let a
thousand flowers bloom. You asked the
question of how the approach we're
taking to regulate AI. I might if I may
change the question a bit which is what
what are we doing to make sure AI can
thrive in the state of Connecticut and
then how are we monitoring to see if
there are adverse consequences perhaps
unintended adverse consequences to make
sure we're thoughtful about regulation
possible regulation. We're rolling out
um AI instruction at some of the
earliest grades. I got to work hard
working with Dan working with workforce
make sure I had the right people able
that there um to teach it. I want people
thinking creatively about how they use
artificial intelligence. Um so to list
the four largest sectors of our economy,
you said them correctly. It's finance
and insurance. Finance is becoming
fintech. Insurance is becoming insure
techch. Uh advanced manufacturing, which
for us is really the supply chains in
our primes in support of our national
defense. Look, if we if we can't get AI
right in the applications around our
national defense, we're going to have a
national defense problem.
Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast.
Join host Sanjay Pury as he explores the
dynamic and developing world of
artificial intelligence governance. Each
episode features deep dives with global
leaders at the forefront of regulating
AI responsibly, tackling the challenges
using AI can bring about head-on and
enabling balance without hindering
innovation.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the regulating AI podcast. I'm your host
Sanjay Puri and we are delighted to have
you join us for what promises to be an
insightful conversation about artificial
intelligence, governance and innovation.
At regulating AI, we engage with policy
makers, industry leaders, and civil
society champions to work towards a
vision of global AI policies that
balance innovation and responsibility.
Today, we are incredibly honored to
welcome the 89th Governor of
Connecticut, Ned Lamont, who's currently
serving his second term after being
reelected in
2022. Governor Lamont really brings a
fascinating blend of public service and
entrepreneural experience to the table.
Uh before taking office, he founded a
successful telecom company that served
over colleges, 400 college campuses
nationwide and taught as an adjunct
professor of political science and
philosophy at Central Connecticut State
University.
Joining the governor today also is Dan
O'Keefe uh Connecticut's uh department
of economic uh development commissioner
who has been instrumental in
implementing the state's vision for AI
development and
regulation. Governor Lamont,
Commissioner O'Keefe, thank you for both
being here today. We get two for the
price of one. Um so a real pleasure to
have you both on the podcast.
Wonderful. Governor, let's uh uh start
with you and explore how Connecticut is
navigating the exciting yet challenging
landscape of AI and AI governance. Uh
you know, tell our listeners a little
bit about all the legislative proposals
on AI regulation that Connecticut uh has
recently unveiled and can you just
outline uh for our audience some of the
key elements of these proposals?
Yeah, I'll start off and then pass it on
to Dan, but look, Dan and I come to this
from a different background than I think
most of the folks in this building. I'm
in the Capitol building and maybe
elsewhere. I mean, as you pointed out, I
used to build uh IT systems. He was a
technology investor. So, Roden see
nothing but threats and risk to
artificial intelligence. We see
incredible opportunity and uh I want to
make sure that Connecticut is at the
forefront there. I just think AI plays
into our natural strengths. We have a
very highly educated population. We have
a very good university system. We have a
broadband access that is you know
universal. And I just think AI is going
to be incredibly um accelerating for
everything we do from um you know life
sciences in the greater New Haven area
or fintech here in Hartford down in
Stanford. These are places where I think
I want to make sure we get ahead of the
curve. Um, so yes, we're being careful
to make sure that people feel safe and
that the regulations are are prudent,
but I don't want to overdo it. I don't
want to scare away innovation. I see
some of that in Europe. I don't want
that happen in Connecticut.
And then maybe just to add to that
Sanjay I mean to you asked the question
of how the approach we're taking to
regulate AI I might if I may change the
question a bit which is what what are we
doing to make sure AI can thrive in the
state of Connecticut and then how are we
monitoring to see if there are adverse
consequences perhaps unintended adverse
consequences to make sure we're
thoughtful about regulation possible
regulation the governor's proposed a a
bill that will will create a fund for
example to to invest in innovative
companies in around AI we're talking
about how we might leverage state data
on an anonymized basis, but pools of
data to make sure AI can be trained in
the appropriate way. You know, the way
way we think about it, and I'll echo
what the governor said about mine coming
from a tech investing mindset, his
coming from a a company and an owner and
an entrepreneur mindset. You know, we we
want to make sure we're we're thoughtful
and that we don't move so quickly that
we end up stifling innovation before we
can fully understand what we're dealing
with. So for example um I I think about
innovation in two ways. There's
foundational innovations and there's
derivative innovations. Foundational
innovations are things like and this is
you know not hyperbole the telephone,
the internet, the printing press, the
steam engine, things that become
ubiquitous and propel economies forward
and then there are derivative
innovations that are built on top of
that. I consider AI to be a foundational
innovation. Uh there will be derivatives
built on top of that. There may be
unintended adverse consequences that
we're going to have to monitor and
consider over time, but for now the our
view of the world is AI doesn't make the
illegal legal. If you do something that
is against the law and AI happen to play
a role in it, it's still illegal. So,
let's make that clear. Let's enable the
the technology and the ecosystem that is
required to make it successful including
training our workforce and then let's
monitor for any unintended adverse
consequences over time that might
require more stringent regulation.
No. So uh I think both of you made some
very very important points. I'm going to
just follow up on a a few of them. Uh
obviously one of them uh both of you
have emphasized which would be I think
great news and this is what we promote
is you want innovation but responsible
innovation and you want Connecticut to
be a place for companies to come in for
startups for uh an educated workforce.
Uh but obviously as you said Dan that uh
it doesn't make the illegal legal. So
those things are already on the books.
But there have been some attempts within
Connecticut and obviously you see
Colorado and several other places in
terms of you know the legislature saying
hey we want to put some guard rails and
things of that nature and people have
been watching this uh from that
perspective. Uh obviously you have made
a very important point and we have had a
lot of people from the EU members of
parliament etc come in and said that the
EU has gone in some cases too far where
you see companies in the EU and we've
talked to companies who said we moving
to America because it's become a little
tough. What do you uh either of you say
to some of the legislative efforts in
Connecticut or in other states that are
happening that say, "Hey, we want to put
a little bit of a, you know, maybe a
little bit of a heavy hand on some of
these uh legislative issues."
Kick it off, Dan. Sure. I I I think you
use the right term, which is heavy hand.
I I I think we got to again be careful
and be thoughtful.
um when when I when I when I look at
some of the concerns that have been
expressed and one of them is is
something they refer to as algorithmic
bias. the the concept that AI if and
automated decisioning if introduced to
some of these high-risisk decisions
things like the allocation of health
care benefits or um uh uh you know
whether or not you receive certain state
benefits or whatever it might be that
hiring decisions that those those
decisions shouldn't be made on an on an
automated basis or partially automated
basis because there's a risk for
algorithmic bias. Look, I I also live in
the real world and what I can tell you
is I see bias everywhere. I I see
structural biases that are humans and
and if if I'm gonna train a human to be
less
biased that that sometimes can take a
generation. Uh but if if if if an
adverse consequence even if that
algorithmic bias gets introduced, I can
retrain that algorithm in in a in a in a
in an overnight session, you know. So,
so I I actually think we this might be a
path to reducing inequity, uh to
reducing the introduction of structural
biases. Um, now that that takes real
work, that takes real data, that takes
real intentionality, and that's that's
what we're really advocating here is not
to suggest we're
anti-regulation. This is the very early
innings of what I think will be a multi-
trillion dollar economic opportunity.
And so we're just emphasizing the point
that we need to be thoughtful and we
need to really understand the nuances of
what this really means before starting
to do these kind of horizontal
regulatory requirements that I do think
will suppress innovation. I'm not
actually worried about some of the
larger companies. They can afford
regulation. I'm really worried about the
small companies uh for whom this would
be, you know, a real a real burden.
Yeah. In fact, some of the larger
companies Sanjay were sort of supportive
because a lot of that regulatory burden
serves as a motan keeps out some of the
um younger companies more independent
programmers. So you got to be very
careful about uh discouraging that. I
want to do everything I can let a
thousand flowers bloom. Uh that's very
true. Sorry. Go ahead, Dan. You
mentioned Colorado. Um you may have seen
just yesterday Governor Polus who who
signed that bill uh came out in support
of a moratorum on some of these state
driven uh regulatory approaches. That's
another thing the governor and I have
been really uh advocating for or vocal
about which is this this is too big of
an opportunity for our country. You know
we we don't think a patchwork of
statebystate regulations is the right
way to approach it.
So um you uh Dan have hit on something
very very important because when I talk
to companies uh the governor just
mentioned the large companies actually
are favoring in some cases they they
call it regulatory capture in some ways
that keeps out these smaller companies.
What about these we have an issue where
the federal government unlike the EU we
are not going to get a comprehensive AI
bill. So when you talk to California,
when you talk to some of the legislators
around there, say, "Hey, if Washington's
not acting, we are going to jump in."
Now, if you're a smart small company,
you say, "I have to deal with
California, Connecticut, Colorado, and
then I have to deal with the EU, India,
etc., etc. This is uh going to be pretty
complicated for a trillion dollar
opportunity, a transformative
opportunity, an opportunity for Yale to
produce
life-saving solutions to diseases that
are known to us. How how does a small
company kind of deal with this? And then
the bigger issue, Governor, is how do
you balance innovation with
responsibility?
Well, I'll start with that if you want,
Sanjay. Um because follow on what Dan
said about a patchwork of different
state initiatives because the feds are
uh not stepping up. So I'm working with
Jared Polus, the governor of Colorado
who comes out of um you know the uh the
media world and the IT world. He was
very cautious and worried about cal uh
Colorado getting too far ahead of
itself. Put a pause on things for a
couple years and now he's running the
National Governor's Association. And so
I'm part of a small team that's trying
to have at least the governors across 50
states find some common ground as we
move forward rather than have everybody
do their own thing. Look, it's
impossible for a small c uh company to
navigate 50 different sets of regulatory
structures. You're going to sty
innovation and take people somewhere
else.
Yeah. And I and I couldn't be agree
more. I I look I I I think uh companies
large and small are are baking AI into
their business in incredibly fundamental
ways and and that's why I made the point
earlier about what is a foundational
innovation and what is a derivative
innovation. Uh this this is already
ubiquitous by the way machine learning
neural networks automated decision
making you know that that was conceived
in the 1950s has been around in
commercial applications since the 1980s
really expanded in the 1990s. None of
this is is new. Mhm. What what is new is
broad consumer awareness because chat
GPT made us all aware of the power of
artificial intelligence and therefore
regulatory interest. What what I'm what
I'm still working on and suggest we as a
society work on is understanding if
there may be derivative applications
that produce adverse consequences that
aren't already illegal. Uh we in the
state of Connecticut I have advocated
spoken to the attorney general about
making it clear that that AI does not
absolve you of our existing laws. I
don't think anyone's going to challenge
that. Um I think whether or not you use
the internet or an Excel spreadsheet or
what have you to to do something that is
illegal, none of that matters. It is
still illegal. So that that's why I
think, you know, the fact that larger
companies perhaps will advocate for a
degree of of regulatory. It's it's not
because they need it to decide whether
to invest in AI. Trust me, they already
are. Mhm. They don't mind it because it
is a competitive weapon for someone with
extensive resources and it doesn't allow
some of those innovators that by the way
may threaten some of those larger
companies to thrive. And that's why
again our focus is so much on the
smaller innovators, the companies that
don't necessarily have the resources to
deal with that kind of regulatory
burden. If it were necessary and I saw
harm, I would be in a very different
place. But I'm yet to see it at any kind
of degree of scale that requires a
horizontal regulatory tier that again I
think would suppress innovation.
That's a great point, Dan. I'm going to
come to the small businesses first, but
uh Governor, we've had a change in
administration uh that happened 100 plus
days ago. Uh before that, there was the
EU uh sorry, there was the uh Biden
administration had the executive order
etc. How has the change in
administration, you know, changed the
approaches that uh states whether it's
Connecticut or others have towards AI
governance and AI regulation?
Um well I'm sort of interested that
um the Trump administration at least uh
in the congressional Republican side as
Dan just referred to you know floated
the trial balloon saying I don't want
any states to do anything to regulate AI
maybe a little bit of overreach there
but they feel like they're in a very
worldwide competitive environment you
know start with China and they really
want to make sure that uh America has a
competitive advantage there. They don't
want to get in the way of that. I will
say um the idea that you're limiting the
research grants and going after
universities, we could be exporting
several of our greatest AI researchers
to some of these same countries because
they don't have a welcome mat here in
the United States.
Yeah. Um so from a you were you
mentioning something about talent also
uh governor because you know AI needs a
lot of things as Dan would tell you is
it needs data it needs talent it needs
chips it needs energy and the United
States has thrived on attracting the
best and the brightest and that might be
a challenge moving forward as you can
see as you said where it might be going
somewhere else. Um, talking about
talent, uh, Governor, I saw that you've
done something which is very innovative
and interesting. Tell our listeners
about, you know, this, uh, Yale School
of Management, uh, you asked them to
come up with AI policy recommendations.
So, tell our listeners what was that
about and what were some of the most
impactful insights from this
collaboration.
Yeah, you know, state government, we got
a lot of lawyers. So they look at things
from legal point of view. A lot of folks
who grew up in politics, so they look at
everything from a political point of
view. So Dan and I just like to get a
wider variety of folks to weigh in. So
you're right. The Yale School of
Management folks did an analysis for us.
I said, "Give me the national landscape.
What do I see in terms of uh AI and more
broadly social media regulation? And
then what should we be doing about it?"
And um most important thing they said
and Dan's referred to this is um most of
what you're talking about is already
illegal. And uh I just came out of a
meeting Sanjay and they said um there's
a bill up there to make sure that um
deep fake pornography is illegal using
AI. Are you telling me you're going to
oppose that? And I obviously no I'm
going to make it triply illegal by uh
saying the same thing um you know yet
again. But the bigger point Sanjay is I
want to make sure young people are
thinking about AI at a young age growing
up with it. U making sure they have the
opportunity to see how you apply it to
different industries and that could
start as I mentioned before in you know
fifth grade in India where it's part of
their national curriculum. I want to
make sure the Connecticut lead there. I
want our universities to feel emboldened
by AI and get in front of that and make
sure that gets insinuated in some of our
legacy industries. some of which are
kind of old. They're going to be
rejuvenated by AI. I think this is an
amazing time to be graduating from
college. You're graduating to the
Renaissance, not the dark ages. I don't
want to do anything to put clouds over
that.
Couldn't couldn't agree more. You know,
every time there's one of these
largecale waves of technology or or what
I again call foundational innovation,
there's a concern that work is going to
be fundamentally redefined and that
people may lose their jobs. And by the
way, that's always been a risk of every
every one of these waves. If you go all
the way back to the printing press, the
Ottoman Empire resisted its introduction
for 300 years. Uh now, obviously, it
didn't slow down the ubiquity of the
printing press. All it did was slow down
their workforce. You know, there was a a
whole industry of of scribes that were
worried about losing their jobs. Guess
what? They did anyway because when you
have these foundational innovations,
resisting them, all it does is slow you
down and make you less competitive. And
that's our our view on AI. There may be
some dislocation clearly uh there may be
some jobs that get redefined because but
but I actually think AI can be an
incredible enabler you know if you if
you now are paired with AI and
understand prompt engineering and how to
how to effectively leverage it then we
can become more efficient our economy
can grow we'll create new jobs that's
happened by the way every single time
we've redefined where we add value um
and so that's why I think what we're
talking about here in investing in
workforce investing in programming to
make we're getting, you know, an
understanding and and trained up. We
want to make sure that Connecticut is
where you become incredible at AI and
and not a place where we resisted
adoption.
So Connecticut uh is where you become
incredible in AI. It's a incredible
Connecticut uh governor, you talked
about bringing AI like in India to the
schools. You launched uh at least from
what I understand it's a pilot program
called AI Academy. tell our listeners
just what is that about?
[Music]
Yeah, I'll start with that. Um, we're
rolling out um AI instruction at some of
the earliest grades. I got to work hard
working with Dan, working with
workforce, make sure I had the right
people able that there um to teach it. I
want people thinking creatively about
how they use artificial intelligence.
And um now we're going to insinuate that
right through our university systems as
well. I just came from a university,
central Connecticut State, but they have
a new minor. The minor is artificial
intelligence. So, you can be studying
medicine, biology, history, or medieval
graphics, and AI will be the minor so
you know how to apply it in the 21st
century.
And let me expand it a little bit
because I know this conversation is
centered around artificial intelligence
and it's an important topic, but but
there's more going on here. You know, we
we're also seeing the emergence of
quantum computing. And I I acknowledge
we're still 5 10 plus years away. We'll
see. Bill Gates thinks five years. I
appreciate that. Feels a little
optimistic, but but within our
lifetimes, we're going to start to see
the application of not only AI, but also
quantum. And to me, that is a that is
the kind of innovation that we saw in
the sort of 1960s, 1970s with the
emergence of the integrated circuit,
semiconductor, and the software layer.
you know, it it is that kind of a step
change function into what we we're able
going to be able to do with these
technologies. The reason why I combine
all of that is we don't even know what
the applications are yet. We're in the
very early innings of how this is going
to transform our economies and our
societies. And so that's what I think
we're starting to teach people is is not
only look how to leverage Chachi PT, but
but also how to think about a world um
where you can't even actually picture
the applications that we will be built.
We need people starting to thinking
about, you know, what these kinds of
things can look like. That's why smaller
innovators are so important. That's
where it's going to happen. There was a
time where all these large companies,
you know, Apple was in a garage and and
it's those companies that we need to
protect. It's those innovators and those
inventors that will ultimately invent
the future we're talking about. And
that's again why we just want to make
sure they're able to do that here in
Connecticut. And we're going to come to
the small innovators. uh open AI was
also in a garage and so was anthropic
and so was Mistral uh only 3 four years
ago we people forget uh governor the u I
think you're at the cutting edge of
bringing uh AI education into uh you
know the school programs some of the
civic leaders that we've had on our
podcast are concerned that there could
be an AI inequity will AI education also
get to underserved communities because
they say there is the digital divide.
Will there be an AI divide also? Is
Connecticut looking at that? Yeah,
that's a great question, Sanjay. Look,
I'll tell you that um during COVID when
um some of our kids were working from
home, like all of them were working uh
there for that first few months. We got
Chromebooks out to every single
underserved community to make sure that
each and every one of those kids um you
know had electronic access. I'm not sure
the remote learning was a home run, but
at least we tried to do everything we
can to make sure that we're able to
level that playing field. And I think
that's going to be doubly important this
day and age. Look, that look, I learned
French. These guys are going to learn
AI. That's going to be the language of
the 21st century. And if you can't speak
it, you're going to be left behind.
We're not going to let that happen. And
I I'll add, I mean, I came out, you
know, I was building cable systems and
it cost tens of millions of dollars. AI
is a great opportunity, an
entrepreneurial opportunity. If you have
a Chromebook and you've got a great mind
and you can apply that in a way without
the big capital um barriers that
sometimes slow thing up, I can't I do
think it could be a great equalizer.
Yeah. And let me let me amplify that
that concept Sanjay because I I actually
really think there's an optimistic view
of the world here which the governor
just finished with which is you know I I
um you know I I come from a long career
background but I I went to some fancy
schools because I went to those fancy
schools I was able to get certain jobs I
was able to have a certain career and
not everyone can go to those fancy
schools and there's there's a lot of
people out there who are incredibly
smart incredibly capable but because
they haven't necessarily had access to
that filtering mechanism perhaps didn't
have as much of an ability to have real
impact. What if AI is what the governor
just described, the great equalizer?
What if what if now if if you if you if
you have an internet connection, and
that obviously is something we're
working on making sure is available to
everyone in Connecticut. But what if if
you have an internet connection, you
have the ability to harness all of that
information, all that understanding, all
that knowledge. And if you harness it
well, you can be part of this next
economic revolution, regardless of
whether or not you happen to have gone
through some societal filtering
mechanism. I I I think there's a real
opportunity there. Yeah. And u uh Dan,
just to follow up with your point, we've
had some uh CEOs of companies that do
personalized education. Are that's
coming in because every kid is
different. Uh some kids might be great
at math, some might be great at uh you
know, languages, etc. So, uh I think AI
can truly be a great equalizer. Dan, you
talked about small businesses. Um, and I
do want to address that because we get
we have a lot of viewers who run uh who
are entrepreneurs. Now, when small
businesses uh think of opportunities,
they think of Silicon Valley, sometimes
Boston, Seattle, etc. Connecticut is not
from that standpoint viewed as that.
tell uh these entrepreneurs what's so
spe besides obviously amazing leadership
that we see right now what's special
about Connecticut special in this as you
said foundational technology that will
bring uh entrepreneurs to Connecticut
yeah and and by the way what you
described Sanjay I'm not going to
dispute the characterization you know I
think historically Connecticut was
thought of the place where rich people
went to pay taxes but but I actually I
think that perception is changing and
and changing rightfully so. So if you
look post pandemic, we've seen our
population trends accelerate, grown each
of the last four years. Only state in
the region whose population has gone up
every single year since the pandemic.
And as I travel around the state and I
meet with folks who have come in, you
know, these are folks that are that work
in a hybrid role. You know, now with
more flexibility of not having to
commute someplace every single day,
they're choosing a place with a high
quality of life, high quality of
education, high quality of healthcare.
sort of the soft and fluffy reasons why
I moved my family to Connecticut in
2011. So, we've seen an influx of
entrepreneurial energy that I I think
really is changing the face as as to
what is Connecticut. So, the governor
and I I are working on investing along
along those trend lines. We've announced
quantum CT which is a collaboration
between Yale and Yukon. The first time
our two R1 research institutes have
collaborated together in a public
private partnership with the state of
Connecticut. We've announced innovation
clusters which is a hund00 million
program all around the application of
both quantum and AI in our core most
strategic industries. Uh we've launched
an office of innovation. I sit humbly as
the state's first chief innovation
officer. We're really trying to promote
Connecticut as the first hybrid state
and and really recreate a culture of
risk tolerance similar to what you've
seen in Silicon Valley. Um I think there
is a real opportunity here and again if
I see I I if you believe the analogy I
drew which is the emergence of quantum
plus AI is analogous to what happened
with semiconductor and the software
layer. You know that is an opportunity
for new economic clusters to emerge as
long as we get our workforce trained to
take advantage of.
So the workforce uh is obviously the
key.
Um, uh, for both of you, you know,
Connecticut is basically known for
financial services, aerospace, and
manufacturing. Uh, maybe I'm missing
some
things. Which sectors do you think are
how are these sectors going to be
impacted by AI?
Keep going, Dan. Sure. They're all
already being impacted by AI. Um, so to
list the four largest sectors of our
economy, you said them correctly. It's
finance and insurance. Mhm. Finance is
becoming fintech. Insurance is becoming
insure- techch. Uh advanced
manufacturing, which for us is really
the supply chains and our primes in
support of our national defense. Look,
if we if we can't get AI right in the
applications around our national
defense, we're going to have a national
defense problem. And the fourth largest
sector is healthcare. And hector
healthcare is getting fundamentally
redefined, you know, with within
biotech. I think I think quantum which
you know theoretically has the ability
to really model what happens in our
universe and in our bodies that's going
to have fundamental implications for for
drug discovery. Um and AI is going to
allow us to understand that
proliferation of data that comes from
those those new research approaches. So
so I I I I actually think we are in an
incredible position you know because we
do have these core sectors all of which
are poised to be fundamentally redefined
and accelerated by these technology
trends.
So all of them are going to get uh uh
transformed uh fundamentally. What about
some mid-career uh employees who might
be sitting in some of these companies
who are going to get impacted? Have you
thought what would
happen from a transition as I think we
talked about there will be some kind of
changes. I don't want to use the word
displacement but there are people who'd
be in mid-career positions out there.
any thoughts in terms of what uh
Connecticut should be doing or what
companies should be doing for them?
Look, we can talk a lot about training,
but you got to remember AI is a tool and
I think um having that experience and
wisdom and imagination to ask the right
questions will always be the guide
guiding star of AI. And I think that's
the human element there. And I think
some of those mid-career guys have got
to stop being threatened by AI and
realize what they bring in terms of um h
how to make it apply to their industry
even better. I also say something else
that's a little contradictory to the
sort of euphoric optimism maybe heard,
but we're trying to um I'm trying to get
the smartphones out of the schools at
least for K through eight kids. I think
it uh it's not AI. I think that is um
you know uh an entertainment that really
can take a dark turn and send some of
these kids down a rabbit hole. We're
putting in place you know more parental
controls for parents for kids under 16
to make sure they don't have willy-nilly
um you know access to some of these apps
that can really have a negative impact.
So the human element is always going to
be there but don't blame AI for this.
Let's make sure that we use it to the
best of our ability.
No, that's uh very true. These um cell
phones u can be a great asset but can
also be a great challenge. Um, Dan, from
a your background from a venture capital
standpoint, I mean, what uh from a uh
venture capital standpoint, how do you
see uh them leveraging uh investments in
uh AI communities and what role do you
see for Connecticut's venture capital
community in growing the state's AI
ecosystem? Yeah. Well, you know, I
mentioned at the outset the governor's
bill, one of the components of it is is
creating a $50 million uh uh venture
capital fund inside Connecticut
innovations, which is our state's
venture capital fund. Been around for
over 30 years. Um, you know, again, I I
go back to my investing career. And, you
know, I I didn't I didn't know it at the
time. I kind of lived through it, but if
I look back at my 25-y year career in
investing, I lived through waves. I
lived through a wave that was originally
you know client server at the beginning
very beginning to the impact of the
consumer internet which was the
connectivity of all of those clients and
servers then the mobile internet which
was bigger still because it was it was
based on the ubiquity of connectivity
that was the consumer internet um and
now what we're seeing with AI you each
wave was larger because it was it was
based on the the network before it um
and I think that creates incredible
opportunity to to just get more
efficient as a society to allow our
companies both large and small to to
really grow and accelerate, be more
productive, and I think it's a real
opportunity for our populace, you know,
to to take advantage of a new set of
skills uh to grow careers at at a more
accelerated rate. So, I I loved my
career in investing, but I invested in
five-year terms. I think of this job now
as still a career in investing. I'm just
now trying to think in 50-year terms.
You know, really think about what the
future could look like. really think
about where Connecticut has true
comparative advantage and invest in the
areas where we have strengths and chip
away and work at the in the area where
where we have where we have weaknesses,
things to work on. Um, and that that I
find incredibly interesting and I've
never been more excited about where we
are.
No, that's uh very important. Governor,
from a a state standpoint, is there
anything from a federal standpoint that
would any guidance on AI policy or AI
infrastructure uh what they're doing
would be helpful to you? Because a lot
of members of Congress Senate uh listen
to us. So, uh, this will be an
opportunity for you to kind of tell them
if there's any guidance, input, or, uh,
assistance that would be needed for
Connecticut or other states, not just
Connecticut.
Look, I think when it comes to putting
in some broad guard rails, it's much
better done at the federal level. And,
uh, them being absent is creating this
hodgepodge of other state initiatives.
But more importantly, when it comes to
um the investments we made, look, the
infrastructure bill passed five years
ago, transformative in terms of uh you
know, transportation. We've got to do
the same thing in terms of AI, in terms
of those quantum computing centers, make
sure that they're distributed, make sure
people regardless of their economic
background, have access to the tools
they need to get maximum value out of
this. You know what Dan and I believe in
when it comes to the state of
Connecticut is um I want everybody to
have access to that garage because I
think that's where the best new ideas
for AI are going to come from. You got
those big old tech companies out there
in California. We've got the garages
here. We'll give you a little bit of
that startup capital. We got some great
academic institutions and we'll get you
that apprentice program, that entree
into some of these legacy businesses we
have so you can help jumpstart where
they want to go. That's where I think
the states can take the lead. I think
that's a limited role of the federal
government.
So, the garage I think is uh that's
going to be our uh headline for the
show. Uh Connecticut offers uh you the
garage. I think uh Governor, that's uh
fantastic uh out there, but uh other
governors who are listening to you
because some of you really are at the
cutting edge in terms of what you're
doing. uh what lessons are there for
other governors or other states out
there? And we talked to a lot of
governors, attorney generals,
etc. Uh I think
um legislators by definition um are
responding to the fears that a lot of
their constituents have. This this
building is loaded with people that say
that um all the negatives that AI could
represent. They want to put up one road
barrier after another. And I'd like to
think that um you know governors have to
step up, have a little wider um lens on
things, maybe look a little further down
the road and make sure they realize not
only it's important to their state, but
it's also important to their
constituents to give them the very best
opportunity. Look, we lost a generation
or two of manufacturing jobs on Jay.
They went down to the Sunb Belt that
labor or you know um salaries, things
like that. I'm going to make sure the
next generation of jobs which are AI
related stay right here in Connecticut.
I think this is going to be a place of
opportunity. It's pretty good because
they call us the land of steady habits,
but that's going to be a loser's motto
if that's our attitude towards AI. The
only steady habit we have is continual
innovation.
No, absolutely. No, absolutely. I think
uh there is a tremendous opportunity
that exists um out there in Connecticut.
Um Dan in terms of um you know startups
uh and you know the innovation that's
happening in AI I mean you know every
day there's something new uh there's you
know reasoning models uh multimodal etc.
Uh, governor talks about legislators.
One of the biggest questions that
legislators ask us on the show is how do
I keep up? I'm a legislator. I'm
sometimes dealing with, you know, border
security, this issue, that issue. How do
I keep up with constant innovation
that's happening and making sure guard
rails are there, etc. And which which is
sometimes tough. Um, any suggestions for
uh legislators who are listening to
this? Yeah. Look, look, here's the cold
hard reality. You can't you can't
possibly keep a pace with everything you
just described at the pace that this
innovation is happening. It's an
impossibility. Um, and actually I think
frankly and honestly, um, I think it's a
mistake if if government tries to
forward regulate a rapidly evolving
category. And that's why I just keep
encouraging all my friends in the
legislature to focus on outcomes rather
than inputs. rather than trying to
regulate the risk of something happening
before it has actually emerged. You
know, that to me is you're regulating
the boogeyman. It doesn't exist yet. So
my my what I just keep trying to keep
everyone focused on is like let's look
at derivative applications of the
innovation itself. So let let me give
you a concrete example. There's a
there's a a view which by the way I
share that we should have been more
forward-footed in regulating social
media and and while I share that view I
we didn't know the impact was going to
have on our kids or our social our
political discourse etc. What I kind of
remind folks is social media was
actually not the innovation. It was the
derivative. It was the derivative of
what was the core innovation which was
the the ubiquity of the consumer
internet. That was what allowed social
media to even become a category. And so
when I talk about AI, I'm talking about
the foundational innovation. We need to
focus on derivative applications of that
found. And if there are adverse
consequences, focus on outcomes. And if
there are outcomes, let's be
front-footed when they emerge. If
something gets created that isn't
illegal, but should be, let's be logical
about it. I I'm just trying to keep us
from trying to prescriptively and
proactively regulate uh something so far
in advance that we end up just the only
outcome is an adver adverse impact on
our economic progression. That that
would be the worst thing for our
society. And Sanjay, I I'll give you a
cheeky answer to your question about how
legislators can keep up in a world
that's changing so fast. Ask Chat GBT,
ask Gemini, ask perplexity. You know,
they'll give you some answers and then
they'll prompt other questions.
Well, ask the AI what's happening with
AI. That's a fantastic answer, Governor.
Uh finally, uh Governor, I sit, uh and
Dan, I sit about 20 minutes away from
what we call data center alley here in
Lowden County, uh where you just go data
center after data centers and that's now
the big investment uh issue that is out
there. Has Connecticut been able to
attract or is looking to attract because
it seems like there's hundreds of
billions, hundreds and hundreds of
billions that's being invested in data
centers. You start. Yeah, sure. Look, um
I I need to add a nuance and what you're
describing is is mega scale data centers
for enterprise applications. This is
what Meta, Perplexity, all the AI
companies I just mentioned need. And you
know, for for those to thrive or to be
viable, you need a couple things. You
need a significant amount of land and
you need low energy costs. Energy uh is
comparatively high in the New England
region. It's not just Connecticut. It's
a it's a it's a regional ISO grid and uh
and land is is at a premium. So do we
have data centers in the state? Yes. Uh
they tend to be uh
uh they tend to be business applications
of data centers not these large scale
mega scale general purpose uh data
centers. The nuance I want to describe
though is the importance of compute. So
what we are focused on and continuing to
look for ways to invest in is compute
resources for our startups for R&D
purposes, not commercial scale
applications, but R&D purposes for um
our our companies large and small and
for our our educational institutions.
You know, those are areas that we're
looking to continue to invest and
support. Um you know, whether or not a
largecale data center exists within the
four walls of Connecticut is not a
strategic priority for us because
compute could be accessed anywhere. So
we we wouldn't mind the jobs. We
wouldn't mind the economic contribution
from a data center, but it's a little
unclear to me whether it should or would
ever be a priority for us from a
strategy perspective. I'd only add
Sanjay because you asked, you know, the
role of the federal government and AI
and compute and um how do we get ahead
of curves energy? I think we need the
federal government to play more of a
role when it comes to energy. Dan just
said, you know, thoughtfully that look,
we are at the end of um, you know, the
pipeline here, so to speak. So, we have
relatively more expensive energy costs
and that would that could be an
impediment to long-term compute.
Thankfully, that big computing center
can be down in Northern Virginia. It
doesn't disadvantage us, but as a
nation, we got to make sure that we have
a strategy because the increasing
electrification of our system, we don't
have the power to generate it. And I
think that should be a strong federal
role. Yeah. Uh energy is becoming a big
big debate and big question permitting
etc. But that's topic for another
discussion. Uh Governor Dan, we
generally end our listeners like just
some quick uh one-word answers to keep
the flow going. So I wanted to just ask
you uh if you're ready for that.
Ready. Okay. And either one of you can
answer that. Um, so more important for
Connecticut's AI future, talent
attraction or company formation?
Okay. Uh, the industry in Connecticut
that will be most transformed by AI in
the next decade.
I was going to say biotech. I agree.
Come on. Come up with your own ideas.
Let go second. Okay.
uh the most effective incentive to
attract AI companies to Connecticut
culture.
Both of you agree on that? I think so.
Look, um we got we get you some startup
money. I got to make sure you know
there's talent. We got the ecosystem
here and that all gets to culture like
Dan said. Okay. Culture. um according to
you uh what is the biggest AI concern
that you have?
My biggest concern is that uh people see
uh the downside and uh they overregulate
uh just when uh we're ready to hit the
ground running. So I I want to make sure
that um we give people confidence we're
going to do this right in the way that
AI can make a positive difference in
their lives. That's wondering the
opportunity. I I I think it is such an
incredible opportunity in front of us. I
I I worry that we'll we'll squander it
just by not taking advantage of it.
Great. And finally, this gets down to
the education piece. What is the most
critical AI skill?
Being able to ask the right questions
and if you know how to ask the right
questions, AI is just a tool that'll
help you get there. And that's going to
make sure that we have the human element
is always front and center in everything
we're doing. Yeah. I I I would say, you
know, the liberal arts education system
has been one of the real lynch pins of
the power of us. And what does liberal
arts do? It it teaches you to think
flexibly. I I I think people need to
start to think in AI terms. In other
words, start to be flexible with how you
approach problems. Think about problems
when you're now approaching them with an
assistant that is always there, always
all knowing, and helps you execute. It's
it's going to be a new way of thinking
about the world. How do you like our
one-word answers?
Those are great. So I I'm just tempted
because we've had uh chancellors and
deans of large institutions including
one of your own uh on this show. Uh this
is really both for because my I'm very
passionate about education. We past 20
years we keep focusing on STEM STEM
STEM. Do you think this because of AI
now the shift you talked about liberal
arts is isn't critical thinking now
probably one of the most valuable things
that from an educational standpoint that
we should be thinking about.
Yeah. But I'm I'm not sure critical
thinking was ever deemphasized. You know
what what what I think we're talking
about now is a is an accelerant and an
enabling factor. It's the emergence of
the calculator, the spreadsheet, the
personal computer, all the things that
allowed us to take these skills and make
them even more impactful. This is just
this is one more tool. I I still think
STEM is going to be incredibly
important. You still think STEM's going
to be uh incredibly important. Okay.
Well, that's uh great to know. Uh I'll
give you a slightly different answer.
One of my favorite stories is about
Albert Einstein and when he was studying
physics in Zurich, so was everybody
else. And he was a very good student
just like a lot of other people. He
often tells the story he also learned to
play violin. He played violin for a
couple of hours a day. And he said when
he looked at that um formula when he
looked at that equation today it' be
that algorithm he thought the violin
helped them reimagine in a in a way that
was contrary to what some of his peers
were. So the violin was really key to
the theory of relativity. Go think about
it. Well violin was key. uh garage is
key, startups are key and innovation is
key. So as we conclude our fascinating
conversation, I really want to thank uh
Governor Lamont and Commissioner
O'Keefe. They really make a great uh by
the way, you make a very good
combination. I'm sure you've done this
before, but for sharing Connecticut's
innovative approach and really I if you
are a startup or a midsize company too,
I you know, if I were starting a
company, I would really take a serious
look at Connecticut because what's
particularly striking is how it is
weaving education, economic development,
and thoughtful regulation. As they've
said, regulation already exists. What's
illegal is still illegal. um and
recognizing that these elements must
work together to create a sustainable
ecosystem for AI. And so for our
listeners interested in learning more
about Connecticut's AI uh initiatives,
please visit the links in our show
notes. And if you have enjoyed our
discussion, please subscribe to our
podcast and join the conversation on
social media. And until then, I'm your
host Sanjay Puri, wishing you thoughtful
reflection on how we can collectively
shape AI's future and our highest values
and aspirations. Thank you. Thank you,
Governor. Thank you, Dan. This is
fantastic. Uh I could have gone on and
on, but I think you have uh real work to
do unlike me.
[Music]
[Music]
