Welcome to the Regulating AI podcast
with Sanjay Puri. AI is changing the
world faster than rules can keep up. So,
how do we protect people without killing
progress? Each week, Sanjay brings you
inside [music] conversations with global
leaders, policy makers, and innovators
who are wrestling with that exact
[music] question. So, if you're curious
about the future of technology and how
it's governed, you're in the right
place.
I want to introduce
Sanjay. Sanjay
is a very interesting guest. Um, Sanjay
is the founder of the podcast regulating
AI. One of the most leading podcasts now
currently in the world about how AI
regulation and how policies are actually
formed with a lot of guests basically
all over the world. I just heard also
recently he interviewed two senators of
the United States to also talk about the
US policies. Could I please announce
Sanjay?
>> Thank you. [applause]
under the pictures.
>> Yes,
>> there are no pictures.
>> Okay, now
>> so we go. You are there.
>> I'm here.
>> Okay.
Okay.
So, good afternoon. Welcome to the
funding the future. how to invest in
trustworthy AI session this afternoon
and the framing for our session is
pretty clear that capital shapes
behavior and there's no question that AI
is scaling very very rapidly and so is
accountability
um how do we make sure that there is
transparency there is u accountability
in the funding that happens and for that
we have two excellent speakers with us
today. We have uh Vanessa Butera from
the EIB, the European Investment Bank,
and we also have Catalina Mueller from
Allaya.
>> Good afternoon.
>> Good afternoon.
>> And the format for us this afternoon is
basically that you get to hear from
them. I'll ask them to introduce
themselves and answer one uh single
question and then we get into some more
detailed discussions that hopefully can
have value for you and at the end we'll
try to see if we can take some questions
from all of you. So Vanessa we'll start
with you
that when we talk about uh the focus of
funding mechanisms
um you know what should we have in order
to make sure that we can accelerate
trustworthy AI and also to make sure
we're not throwing good money after bad
>> of course so good afternoon all I think
this is the challenge for many of us
today in the race of AI we tend to
finance what we call a bit sometimes
marketing AI but what we should finance
first is uh the AI trust uh
trustworthiness why because this is our
credibility this is how we can shape a
long-term AI that will be sustainable
and the best way to invest is to invest
in platforms in AI where we can trust
the data where we can trust the way we
use this data and also the the the
traceability
So the model will probably change over
the future because we will like the
green buns. We saw that the trustability
of the data behind the green buns and
ESGs as a value and that will probably
be one of the key challenge for the
future.
>> Thank you. How about you go?
>> Thank you. Thank you very much. Good to
see you all. Um I think that when you uh
when you want to invest in AI, you want
your return on investment and I see
let's say there is uh quite some
challenges in the current climate for
getting a proper return on your
investment and the first is what I see
overpromise versus underd delivery. I
mean endless sora videos was not was
what was promised to us. We were
promised a solution to uh poverty and to
hunger and we were promised uh all kinds
of discoveries. Uh but in fact that is
where the money now flows. All the money
goes into what I say a bit the overhyped
AI that we now have. So the first thing
that I would do is look at what kind of
systems can really bring value in those
in those challenges in those real
challenges. The second thing that I
think impacts your uh bottom line is
liability.
If you want to invest in a system that
poses an extreme risk of fines for
example because you don't comply with
regulation or a risk of damages claims
or copyright claims that will hit your
bottom line negatively if you invest in
those. So you need to look at compliance
really from the get-go. And the third
thing I think is trust. nothing drives
your money away faster than public trust
and if the technology is not safe if it
doesn't deliver on its promise if it's
harmful even then trust goes out the
door immediately so those are the three
elements that I wanted to flag for um
for a focus uh on investment and I I
echo what you said Vanessa that the
focus should be on things that are good
for society on AI that is good for for
the for for our children, for our
families and for the society we want to
live in.
>> Well, that's very helpful. Uh Vanessa,
we have lot of entrepreneurs in this
audience and at this conference as you
can see. So when an AI project
approaches the EIB, what are the minimum
thresholds of trustworthiness uh that
they need to pass through? What are some
deal breakers or how do you derisk some
of them for some of these folks who are
here?
So before jumping into the deal
breakers, I really would like to uh
mention that the European Investment
Bank is very active to finance what we
call the initiative the EU initiative
techu. So all the European investors uh
can contact EIB. There is a one-stop
shop on the website where you can apply
for uh a cheap funding and uh we do
provide also venture dep to really
support the tech uh in Europe to really
shape the future key players uh that we
want to invest in for uh for Europe.
Of course we we are looking at the
project from different angles. First is
of course the type of uh eligibility
that uh uh the prov the clients are uh
building in but we are also looking at
the uh the value behind the company and
one of the key value of course is all
these future players that will invest
into ways to to build I would say
European uh data platform with the same
language uh how to assess bias and how
to secure that what is built uh is uh
taken into consideration these areas all
the sandboxes that we could build and
rely on each other company to make sure
that we do not reinvent the wheel in
different countries but we really try to
join forces that will be uh clearly one
of the key um value added but again it's
not only that I want to insist we are
much broader but this is really where uh
the focus is given We want to develop an
ethical a responsible AI and I think
this is part of the value in Europe that
makes us very different from the rest of
the world.
>> Well, I'm sure a lot of the investors
here will be glad to know the EIB is
investing in some of these companies.
So, please reach out to the EIB. Um,
Catalina, what is one clause in a term
sheet? Now, let's go to the investor
side. She talked about uh, you know,
this the company side. What should be
one clause that a term sheet should have
from a trustworthy AI standpoint, from
an investor standpoint?
>> Uh, I would say AI act compliance. If
you want to invest in uh European
companies, they would have to be
compliant. And I know from experience
that uh the requirements for compliance
start at the very very beginning of your
development process. It's not something
that you can do at the end just a
checkbox are we compliant? No, you start
with your data. You start with the
selection of your training data, the
selection of your model, the building of
your system. How transparent is it? What
kind of risk does it pose? Am I
bordering a prohibited system? So I
would say AI act compliance taken into
consideration from the get-go would be
one of the things that I would certainly
demand. So AI action plan uh from that
standpoint when coming back to our
investment
just to rebound on that for the first
time in EU we have a European AI act
it's not a national regulation it's an
EU regulation and for once if I may say
so I think it's a it's a great
opportunity for all uh European
countries to speak the same language and
complies comply with the same regulation
and that will also help the future model
to be sustainable and trustable.
>> So I think that's a great point for our
investors too. Um Vanessa from a
instrument standpoint what instruments
uh financial instruments would you
preferably lean towards whether it's
debt venture funding etc to fund
trustworthy I when I say you the EIB if
you were to tell that to our audience
>> sure of course for this type of projects
uh clients are not looking for a
long-term loan right uh usually it's
more for uh equity uh partic
participation and we have the European
investment fund that is very active in
that field. We also do provide venture
depth as I mentioned. There are also
grants because again EU is a big family
and the European Commission is very
active to support that and this is
really the type of area where we should
be much more active uh in the future.
Then uh we also need to look at and when
I say we is also with the European
Commission at
instruments to have incentives for these
companies that are investing in uh
sustainable AI. This is maybe an area
where we need a bit more um I would say
proactiveness. uh this will come but we
saw with the green buns uh it was the
case that uh at the beginning some
companies benefited from these uh
incentives and this uh should be the the
future as well.
>> Can I can I add something?
>> Yes. I just want to uh want to stress
also that I I I just told you that uh
compliance and particularly AI
compliance is important but I also want
to say don't let it chase you away. I
know there's many stories out there that
it is an impossible regulation is way
too difficult. It regulates everything
away. This is not true. If you look at
it properly, if you look at it
carefully, it's almost like a blueprint
of how to build a good AI system that
can be sustainable, that can be
profitable, that is not harmful, that is
that will actually win over the market.
So it's not a it's it I I hate the
phrase regulation stifles innovation. It
doesn't it helps you build it. It can be
a stepping stone for uh good AI
products.
I think this is very good to indeed
emphasize because
I also develop AI for the EIB and we
also have internal use cases that we
develop for our own organization and
like any other company we have to be
compliant with the AI act. Initially uh
we were wondering how we would approach
that
but believe me or not it's really a
guide. It really provides the right
foundations for a proper governance, for
the right accountability,
for the right um monitoring as well
because anything we built within an
organization will need to be maintained
over time and when we see the the speed
the impact of this AI and now we we we
all uh know a lot around Gen AI, agentic
AI and so on and so forth. The more
agents you build, of course it's
fantastic uh at the beginning, but then
you need to maintain and then if you do
not know what you use as a data, good
luck because then it's really garbage in
garbage out and then this is what you
said you put at stake also your company
in terms of reputation. So we will also
see a shift in terms of roles and
responsibilities in the future because
there is always this fear about AI will
uh you know replace uh people. I really
don't believe I think that roles of
people will change that's for sure but
also the dynamic in the future in the
company yes
>> it will change so HR also has a key role
to play in my view in the future around
um thisatic it's not only a
technological journey
>> yeah Kathalina brought up a pretty
important point just for our audience
and this is just to both of you can
early stage startup Startup companies
also apply to the EIB and it's not a big
bureaucratic process because startups
have a big worry that hey I have to
build my business I can't spend all my
time just chasing uh bureaucracy. So any
thoughts on that?
>> Can I start? Yeah.
>> So at TIB uh we took the commitment to
uh finalize a deal within six months. I
know that for startups sometimes this is
already too long but it shows really the
um importance that we want to give a
quick reply. The aim is not to be
bureaucratic or admin but we also have
to make sure that we invest at the right
place according to the eligibility
criteria but the team is extremely
reactive and again one-stop shop. There
is uh uh everything on the website.
There is an eligibility checker as well
that will facilitate and guide the uh
the clients to know what uh they can
apply for. So I really invite you all uh
to to to try and test it. And if I may
add one, there's another very I think
interesting funding mechanism that is
available. It's called EIC, European
Investment, no European Innovation
Council. H and there you have
particularly aimed at startups really
early um early phase products funding
and this is not um um this is not an
investment or a loan. It's actually
funding from the European Commission. So
you could have a look at that as well.
EIC.
>> Well, I think that's great news uh for
our startups. 6 months because I can
tell you that venture capitalists also
generally do not act sometimes earlier
than that. So, I think that's great
news. 6 months one-stop shop website. Uh
so, that's fantastic. Um Kathina, from
an investor standpoint, there are some
investors also in our audience. what
global norms uh most need translation uh
into concrete due diligence investor
listless from your standpoint
>> uh for for Europe it should definitely
be the AI act like I already said but it
should you should also know that it is
the AI act is strongly connected to the
AI convention by the council of Europe
this is a human rights protection
convention for world with AI and those
two are connected because basically what
this is a bit technical call legal legal
technicality. Basically the the the
convention the AI convention of the
council of Europe is implemented in the
European member states through the AI
act which also means that you have to
apply um the AI act and its and its
respon and its obligations in light of
the convention. So both these instrument
and the convent convention is actually
much broader than the AI act. It has I
don't know how many signitories already
outside Europe as well including Canada
for example um and and Japan for
example. So those two instruments are in
my opinion the main instruments to uh to
take into account.
>> Maybe we can take some uh questions from
the audience too. I've been uh pushing
away. So if uh anybody in the audience
has some questions. We see a hand up
there please. We see a hand back there.
>> Hi. Uh thank you for your uh for your
talk. Um my question is actually about
collaboration between u between the uh
the European bank and also private
investors. Um for example um
strategically we uh can you share a
little bit about what it means for uh
private event uh investors and venture
capitalists who see that a startup is
actually funded by you and also if you
have any interactions or collaborate to
sh sort of share strategy with the
private sector so that when uh they are
thinking about investing and they see
that you are involved uh that helps
their decision making.
>> Sure. So first of all all the deal uh
all the deals we are financing are
available on our website because we have
this transparency policy where we
disclose absolutely all the uh financing
we do. uh we also work very closely with
all uh national authorities uh to really
develop partnership public and private
and try to join forces because they also
have sometimes national plans. Um we
have also opportunities to meet directly
with some key strategic actors uh in
Europe and of course then beyond that we
also uh work closely with all the let's
say big EU players and we try to also
use their network to uh then reach out
uh the the other companies that would
like to uh to scale up.
Another question
if you can just uh keep it to the
question, introduce yourself.
>> Hi, Asa Kuna, a global AI ethics and
regulatory leader at EY. Um, just in the
panel before this, we heard uh one of
the um speakers refer to the mantra of
fail fast as a mantra for innovators. um
what would it take uh what kind of uh
structures can we put in place so that
this mantra can be amended to become
fail fast but fail safely.
>> I would yeah I would
we are working at this moment on um a
very large project where we are helping
uh national supervisors establish
regulatory sandboxes.
These are mandatory under the AI act. So
each supervisor in each country once
appointed has to establish a regulatory
sandbox and there the aim is to have
promising AI systems be assessed and
tested under the umbrella of a
supervisor and within the boundaries of
the law to see okay can we if we fail
can we mitigate how can we address so
maybe the regulatory sandbox is if you
want we can speak about that uh after
this panel. The regulatory sandbox is uh
is an interesting approach. There's
going to be at least one in every member
state and the project is called user ei.
>> Thank you. Another question. Oh,
>> hi. Thank you so much. My name is Noah.
Um I was wondering as I am more on the
infrastructural side of AI and the safe
and ethical development uh of AI um is
there a uh appetite as well from uh your
department to invest on uh the proper
infrastructure specifically in EU um
speaking about data centers and and that
type of infrastructure.
Absolutely. And this is really key
because it's also linked to the topic of
sovereignty, right?
>> Absolutely.
>> Today we we are all sometimes a bit
dependent. I would I would say it like
that from the big player from the US
players. But this is the transition we
need to build and this is the future. So
definitely we we finance that uh quite
heavily and we also try to
diversify our own internal uh IT
landscape as well.
>> Wonderful. Thank you so much.
>> If I can if I can add to that you also
need to be to make sure that um um in a
more practical sense what kind of
infrastructure do you offer? What kind
of access do you offer to your
infrastructure? Is your infrastructure
only focused on uh the very large
foundational models for example or can
it also handle other things? So and
another thing is interoperability which
is also very very important. We see a
lot of fragmentation throughout Europe
and all kinds of so interoperability is
also very important.
>> Well, we have very little time left but
I think we covered quite a bit of
ground. I think you got uh some pretty
good insights. The European Investment
Bank is a great platform six months but
also uh I think uh what Katina pointed
out was the EUAI act is a great platform
for incorporating a lot of these things.
So I would really request all of you to
give a big round of applause to Vanessa
and Kathina for their great comments.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank [applause] you. Thank
you.
Thanks for tuning in to the Regulating
AI [music] podcast with Sanjay Puri. If
you enjoy today's conversation, don't
forget to leave a comment. We'd love to
hear what you thought. Share it with
someone curious about the future of EI
and join us next time for more stories
and insights from the leaders shaping
what's ahead right here on the
Regulating AI podcast.
