From my from my personal experience
leading digital transformation in
municipality of Milan, we saw how data
and digital services could make
government more responsive and
especially more inclusive that uh you
know there is not a best or the worst.
There is a balance on one side. We can't
stop digitization. We can't stop the
boost of technology and the
acceleration. We should not consider the
AI the AI challenge as refer only to big
organization or small organization or
public companies or NOS's or academia or
everything. I I could testify that uh
you know women are still a very small
percentage of tech population and this
is a problem. It's a huge problem.
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast.
The podcast dedicated to shaping
responsible, ethical and trustworthy AI
practices and policies worldwide. I'm
your host Sanjay Puri and today we are
honored to welcome a truly remarkable
guest who brings a unique multis- sector
perspective to AI governance and policy.
Robera Koko is a distinguished expert in
digital transformation and female
empowerment who spent her career
bridging the public and private sectors.
Currently she's serving as senior
advisor to clidra private equity and
academic fellow at Nuke University.
Roberta brings over 25 years of
experience from Microsoft where she
became the national plans development
director for Western Europe.
But most notably for our audience,
Roberta served as deputy mayor for
digital transformation and citizen
services in Milan from 2016 to 2021,
where she revolutionized how one of
Europe's most important cities delivers
digital services to its citizens.
Welcome to the regulating AI podcast,
Robera.
Hello. Thank you so much. I'm really
honored to be here with you and to share
my experience with you. Wonderful. Uh
Roberta, we have a global audience. Our
audience is uh policy makers, uh think
tanks, AI entrepreneurs, civil society
members from around the world.
So for them, you've written a lot about
digital democracy and you implemented it
uh at a city level. How do you see AI
changing the relationship between
citizens and government and what
governance frameworks are necessary to
maintain democratic accountability?
Okay. Uh let's start with a kind of a
statement. Uh artificial intelligence
has the potential to both strengthen and
challenge democratic institutions. From
my from my personal experience leading
digital transformation in municipality
of Milan, we saw how data and digital
services could make government more
responsive and especially more
inclusive. However, uh artificial
intelligence adds complexity because uh
systems uh that automate decision making
can also obscure accountability and
reduce transparency if not managed in
the proper way. And so we need we
definitely need a governance framework
that ensure explanability, auditability
and especially that maintain human
oversight.
uh I think that transparency
in artificial intelligence framework is
not an option is fundamental because it
gives us the uh assurance that you know
the development will be always made by
uh human touch.
So development is always made by humans
which is I think an important point.
Uh, Roberta, you have now worked across
12 European countries and you serve on
the Italian government and advisory
committees. Uh, as you know, the EU
passed a comprehensive AI act last year,
which probably is the most comprehensive
AI policy around the world. According to
you, because there have been many
different viewpoints about it. uh what
aspects of that AI act work well and
where do you see the gaps?
Uh okay, as you as you told uh the
European AI act is a a groundbreaking
attempt to balance innovation on one
side with uh risk management and it's
riskbased approach provides um legal
clarity and also a kind of support for
uh governments and different countries
uh countries. Uh in this regard, we must
acknowledge that the EU had moved early
working on the AI act since 2021. So
ahead of the AI revolution explosion. So
uh uh European countries
uh understood very early that we
definitely need a framework to help all
the countries to be aligned on the most
important topics around AI. However, uh
unfortunately let me say uh enforcement
structures remain fragmented.
I I believe that we need stronger
interdisiplinary
oversight beyond privacy covering other
aspects which are very very important
such as ethics uh data life cycle and
also uh so social uh impact. Uh and so
in in my personal view a more
coordinated supervisory body is
essentially
Uh in Italy we are trying to implement
the EU act trying to understand that we
definitely need an overall framework but
at the same time we need to understand
which are the local needs and if are the
local um duties that we have to respect
and so uh Italy's approach um is shows
that countries can add the value without
deviating from U alignment h and trying
to do this we can also embed cultural
and constitutional principles. So my
view is we definitely need a an overall
framework and we need an act and this
act was built on the level of risks
which is very important especially for
you know organization. On the other
side, we have to respect
every country and local cultural needs.
And so the the best um the best work to
do should be to work together to define
a common framework but at the same time
to respect local needs and local
regulation. So,
Roberta, just to follow up because
uh as you said, it's a riskbased act,
but you're saying uh it's a good start.
Obviously, they had the they started
very early
um in 2021 or so. Um but your concern is
about enforcement and also respect for
local culture and customs and tradition.
One of the uh criticism of the EU AI act
outside the EU and within the EU is this
whole dilemma of innovation versus
regulation.
uh the worry is that lot of uh you know
the innovative AI companies uh startups
etc uh within Europe might leave because
of a strong regulatory framework. When
you see the former prime minister of
Italy he t Mario Draghi he talked about
maybe some of the regulations might be
stifling innovations. What are your
thoughts in terms of uh this discussion
that is going on about uh you know the
EU AI act the balance between innovation
uh entrepreneurship versus regulation
that that's a very interesting topic I
after my experience as a deputy mayor uh
in the city of Milan I had the privilege
to work 20 months for the draggy
government. I was in the staff of the
minister of innovation and digital
transformation. So I was part I I was
attending this discussion and uh it's
it's quite interesting to see that uh
you know there is not a the best or the
worst there is a balance on one side we
can't stop digitization we can't stop
the boost of technology and the
acceleration of for example,
artificial intelligence
usage. On the other side, we have to
maintain
a kind of regulation. But this
regulation should not at all prevent
from the development of innovation. If
not, it will be a terrible and negative
boomerang
against public and private organization.
So the idea is to define a a real
balance between the two points. Work for
defining
a positive approach to the development
of technology especially artificial
intelligence
defining borders that shouldn't that
should not be you know a prison for
creativity or idea. On the other side,
we have to support all you know the um
the range of companies because what we
risk is that big companies can be very
smart in surfing innovation and
developing projects.
um I mean uh using uh artificial in
intelligence for uh you know the best of
their business. On the other side uh
small and medium companies are still
suffering from lack of skills and so uh
we shouldn't offer them alibi for
preventing the usage of technology. If
not they will be um very soon out of uh
you know the market out of the business.
So I do not think there is a perfect
receipt. I think there should be a kind
of balancing uh approach
uh with regulation and also um
capacity of innovation. So you're saying
you're saying there has to be a balance
between regulation and innovation which
as you know is a hard balance uh but it
is being done
from moving from the EU to the Italian
uh perspective.
Uh Roberta you know everybody talks
about that the eur Europe has incredible
AI talent. It Italy has a very good AI
talent. How is the AI ecosystem growing
in Italy right now?
Huh? This is another very interesting
topic because
um we
should not consider the the AI the AI
challenge
as
refer only to big organization or small
organization or public companies or
NOS's or academia or everything the in
in my in my personal view the most
correct approach should be a kind of
holistic approach. We should work to
build up an ecosystem, an ecosystem that
can leverage the best of every single
component. So, uh let me introduce the
the the theme of public private
partnership in this kind of uh you know
development.
um 25 years in Microsoft taught me the
power of collaboration.
We we need shared sandboxes,
co-regulatory models and innovation
packs between institutions and
companies. And let me add another uh
stakeholder which is NOS's because we in
Italy especially we leverage NOS's
capability for example for uh sharing
digital culture and so in in my idea uh
the the the the best approach should be
to define a a real and concrete
ecosystem platform firm and uh and and
something that I usually mention when I
uh speak about public private
partnership PPP, I really would like to
add another P which is platformbased
public private partnership which means
we should be uh very careful in defining
rules to share data to share information
to share how to develop the best
technology to surf
AI uh wave. But we really can make the
difference only if we work together. If
we build up a real ecosystem and in this
ecosystem
all of the components would get their
own value. This is the only way. If we
separate
uh public from private, NOS's from
citizen, academia from you know rest of
people. I I do not think we will get our
goal. So you're saying we should have
all of the stakeholders together uh
whether it is academia,
companies, um uh civil society etc.
which is very very important. Um
Roberto you uh created the Milan digital
week to you know to showcase at least
innovation ecosystem.
So when you look at the early stage
startups versus large enterprises,
should AI policy or rules differ for
them? Um
in your view?
Uh yes. Uh I think that uh proportionate
regulation is key. We cannot treat small
and large uh companies the same way at
all. Startups often lack compliance
resources uh regulatory sandboxes and
phased obligations could allow
innovation without compromise. Uh
however uh in my opinion ethical
standards must be not negotiable across
the board. It's clear that uh if you
have a small company, if you are a
startup, maybe if you are a group of
very young people, you do not have all
the elements, you do not have all the
skills, maybe you have a great idea,
maybe you are amazing at, you know,
developing something, you know
technology because you are digital
natives, but at the same time, you don't
know the business scenario, the business
world. And so uh I I think that here
again a kind of um generation
uh partnership between you know young
and more adult people, small companies
and big companies in order to leverage
the best from everyone. and the
regulation should be shaped in order to
address their own needs. One example uh
that gets to my mind is the European
GDPR experience. The regulation takes
proportionality
into account allowing some flexibility
for small and medium enterprises. for
example, partial exemptions from uh
maintaining records of processing
activities for organization with fewer
than uh 250 I think employees. So you
can manage the regulation in order to
address specific needs not one by one of
course but considering the different
level and also the maturity of a
company. Startups are very different
from uh medium businesses or small
businesses and uh big companies. Finance
sector is different from manufacturing
and so uh I think that we we definitely
need a kind of overall regulation but we
have to respect the differences in in
different businesses. So what you're
saying is uh have regulation but have it
in a proportionality perspective. So you
know for different regulations for
different kind of entities for smaller
companies versus bigger companies. Um
Roberta you uh had an initiative STEM in
the city where you've championed uh
female participation in technology and
then there is this whole issue of
digital divide and we just talked about
um
where uh you see when you look at social
media it's controlled by five six seven
companies and it seems like you could
have have a concentration of power uh as
far as AI is concerned whether it is in
those same companies or similar five six
companies. So the question really uh
that you know I want to ask you is there
twofold. One is
how do you uh make sure that this
concentration of AI does not end up
again in a few companies that are based
in uh California and make sure that
there is an access to that technology
for all kinds of companies around the
world. but also because of your
participation and your promotion of uh
you know uh female participation in
technology
how should one make sure there is
equitable access to AI benefits across
different demographics whether it's male
female
uh you know city village uh global south
global north so can you talk a little
bit about
Yeah, sure. First of all, uh I think
that digital inclusion is uh one should
be one of the scope of the development
of innovation. So uh in in in many
countries and Italy is one of them we
still have a huge digital gap and this
digital gap is a huge problem is a huge
problem for companies is a huge problem
for governments is a huge problem for
citizen why companies are not uh finding
uh the talents and the skilled people
they look for their own business because
there are no enough, you know, trained
people with certain app skills.
um and specifically you know AI or data
scientist or architect
tech architect or something for the
government because uh public sector is
I think is running very fast uh for
digitization
uh all over the countries uh especially
in Italy during the last let me say 10
years public sector sector has improved
significantly the capacity of developing
digital services and so on. But if you
develop digital services and you are
government any kind of public sector,
you have to be sure that all citizens
might benefit from it. And you really
have to think to all of your population.
And uh you know in Europe we have uh uh
the uh DESI the DESI so it's the
digitization index which is still a a a
problem because uh it looks like uh that
less than 40% of citizens have uh basic
digital literacy. That means that if you
are a municipality, if you have a
government and you are developing
services but 40% of your population
couldn't even approach those, that's a
total failure. As people you are if you
do not have basic digital skills
you might be out of the democracy of
your place of your city of your country.
So there is a there is a huge problem.
Uh what we are doing in Italy with with
the with the previous government uh we
um set up a fund which is uh Republica
digital fund. So fun republica digital
which is a significant amount of money
which was shared to regions and uh the
regions shared with the municipalities
and municipality enrolled nos
to share digital country all over the c
the country digital culture all over the
country. You mentioned Milano Digital
Week, which is one of my heart project
in my previous job and which is still
ongoing thanks to the new person who is
in charge of digitization in Milan. And
this was another attempt to uh use a
week, you know, Milan is very famous for
fashion week, for design week. And we
decided to have also a digital week. And
we called private companies, NOS's,
students, teachers, all the city to
share their expertise to offer some
skills to you know less empowered
uh people on the gender gap. Let me uh
also give you uh my point. In in all the
roles I covered in my career in the
private sector and the public sector, I
had something in mind which is having
being um have have worked for so many
years in the ICT sector. I was the I I
could testify that uh you know women are
still a very small percentage of tech
population and this is a problem. It's a
huge problem because for example in
developing AI services
if you develop from a certain point of
view what you will get will be something
with the same bias of the developer.
It's so easy because you know there is
no technology with bias but if you only
select a group of population to develop
any kind of service you know the result
will be uh directly connected to the
person who developed it. So uh um to
have more girls, more women in the tech
area means that we have a more balanced
value and we also can offer more
creativity and of course more
empowerment to women. So during my
career I try to uh you know
organize as many project as projects as
possible to share the value of
technology to girls in order to make
them consider STEM studies in their
career. No matter if they want to be a
lawyer or a teacher or a tech, but to
have
a kind of tech capacity, tech skills
would definitely help them in their
career.
So u obviously
u making sure that technology and STEM
as early part of uh especially in terms
of women's educational to bring some
parity in there uh I think is what
you're saying
in terms of uh the concentration and we
we talk about a little bit about the
concentration of you know we talked
about the digital divide. Uh now people
are worried about the AI divide but what
about the concentration of AI companies
within a few handful of those companies?
Is that something that worries you uh or
is that something that would have any
implications for startups or other
companies in Europe?
Huh? That's a tough question and you're
right. Sorry if I I didn't answer you
before. Um, of course it's quite let me
say at least strange that most of the
tech companies come from a certain area.
I think that it should come from you
know far from now because uh there was a
specific need of uh tech development for
certain areas uh and certain sector uh
Europe uh is trying to understand how to
face this phenomenon. We also have some
other um you know
or we have different capacity for
example we don't feel um to be uh second
place on creativity or capacity to get
the talents from the academia or um you
know getting the best of our students
and our companies. is I think that it
it's quite tough from uh European side
to face these big big tech companies who
are managing this sector. on the other
side uh I think that the we can balance
this kind of Germany I don't know which
is the right word in uh making those
companies work with the local rules. So
European Commission has a special
component to um interface these
companies in order to make them you know
aware of the local rules and the local
uh needs. Um
there are a lot many uh local companies
uh setting partnership for specific
areas. So taking the local needs to the
big companies and trying to develop
something together. uh in the uh short
time I do not see the capacity from
Europe to you know develop
uh something that can face these big you
know um international companies. At the
same time, h having worked for Microsoft
for so many years, I have seen the
capacity of big companies to work with
the local countries with work with local
communities to respect the laws and to
be you know um accountable for the value
of the business and I think this is the
most important thing. So in the short
duration obviously Europe might not have
an answer for some of these bigger
companies but maybe in the longer u run
uh they could be um Roberta generally um
you know Milan obviously
uh you've done the uh you know the
digital week Milan digital week uh and
obviously it is growing an EOS ecosystem
per se. If you know there are cities in
the global south that are looking to
adopt AI, what lessons do you think from
Milan would you suggest they um apply
uh within the global south? because
that's a big challenge when you look
across Asia, Africa or even uh some
other places uh as the world is looking
towards AI.
Yeah. Uh okay. I I believe that Milan uh
has several lessons learned to to share.
Uh first of all uh the value of user
centricity.
When we developed the services to
citizen uh we put the person at the
center. Uh and this is not just you know
as slogan this is something that was the
the polar star of our development. So
first of all user centricity. Second uh
as I mentioned public private
partnership
um on on one side public can really make
things happen because that they can
define rules define laws on the other
side private
uh private sector has the tools has uh
the skills and so only the the mixture
of the two can really make projects up
and running. And uh third in my opinion
is attention to digital sustainability
and inclusion. Let me say so um I think
that one of the the the the lesson that
we can share is uh co-design services
with citizens
and work to invest in uh foundational
infrastructure, digital infrastructure
and also define clear governance model
especially when you work With public
private partnership, you have to define
who is accountable for uh the time
frame, the investment,
the KPIs,
uh the results that you want to achieve
and how you will measure those results.
If you develop the best digital service,
but if you do not consider the
percentage of usage, it's totally
useless. You have something that you can
put on a shelf and that's all. You have
to make services
useful for citizens. And I think
following this this comment, I think
that Milan's transformation shows that
scale is less important than vision and
partnership. And so uh as you as you
asked me, cities in the global south can
leapfrog if AI is human centered and
locally adapted and so they can jump
over you know the development that other
countries and cities uh have already
done. uh and so uh this is from the
south point of view from from the north
point of view from the global north as
you as you mentioned I think that we
have a clear responsibility
toward those of the global south uh we
need to think about uh friendship
relations between cities that center on
technology transfer one of the project I
am uh most proud of at the very
beginning of my mandate in the uh
municipality of Milan uh was something I
called digital bridges. I knew that
Milan at that time twist
was already one of the most advanced
technological city in the country but we
were far away from other cities like
Barcelona lies like uh uh Helsinki like
uh London for something like New York
and so one of my first project was to
set up digital bridges in order to share
experiences and in order to learn. Uh we
were good at doing something so we could
share our expertise but we were probably
facing some problems and so sharing
experiences also prevent other from
making the same problem the the same
mistakes. So this is this is my view.
Well that's very very helpful for our
audience. Uh what you're saying is what
lessons global south can learn is uh be
citizen centric do a public private
partnership have digital inclusion and
then um you know have a digital bridge
is something that you've done to share
experiences with digital with the global
south or even with the global north that
you did uh for Milan. So for you know
cities that are listening I think those
are fantastic uh recommendations from
Roberta. Roberta finally you've
implemented large scale digital
transformations.
What are some of the if you can just uh
briefly talk about some of the practical
biggest practical challenges in
implementing AI governance and how can
they be overcome?
There are many. First of one something
that I experienced myself institutional
celos when I began in the municipality
of Milan. My first digital project was a
project of interoperability
because I had to put all the data
together and I found that in Milan just
in one city we had 282
different databases
not connected at all. So first of all
institutional silos you have to uh
tackle and uh you know overcome uh that
specific problem skill gaps within the
institution. It's it's very uh it's very
important to uh hire uh the right people
with the right skills,
not to have uh everything developed
inside the public sector, but to have
the people that can drive and manage the
right technological transformation.
And the third is lack of accountability.
We have to be very careful using
technology especially AI because uh you
do not have to delegate accountability.
You have to use technology as an
enabler. You have to use technology as a
lever of your expertise and connect it
to the vision you have. But you can't
delegate accountability. you know the
the the human supervisor should be
always
uh kept in mind. So you have to to be uh
on the point and you have to define who
is the the driver of the project how you
can check the project advancement you
have to define which are the uh success
metrics and so on. technology is an
amazing
partner but it's a partner that that's
my personal view. No that's u very
helpful. So you from what your
experiences some of the governance
challenges are the silos within the
organization the talent skill gap that
exists in some cases um that are there
within the organization and then
obviously accountability
uh of responsibility and not you know
delegating uh that accountability. So
that I think is a great lesson for some
of those folks who are listening in
terms of lessons learned in challenges
in governance working in cities working
taking lessons from Europe uh from Italy
or from Milan. Uh I think uh this has
been fantastic. Um Robera towards the
end we have uh a lightning round of
questions uh where we are looking for
one word um answers from you. Are you
ready?
Okay. Well, let's give it a shot. Uh
Roberta, current EU AI act, is it
sufficient or is it incomplete?
In progress. uh according to you AI
governance priority. What should be the
AI governance priority? Should it be
innovation or protection?
Protection. Okay. What is the best
regulatory approach prescriptive or
adaptive?
Adaptive. Okay. Uh citizen participation
in AI governance is it essential or
optional?
Essential. And finally, Robert, I think
you answered that, but we'll try it.
Private sector role uh within governance
and AI policies, are they partners or
are they a subject?
Partner. Okay. And
AI transparency requirements, are they
mandatory or voluntary?
Mandatory. Fantastic. Roberta, this has
been really an absolutely fascinating
conversation. You know, your unique
journey from corporate leadership to
public service to academia and now
private equity, you know, provides
exactly the kind of multifaceted
perspective that AI governance
desperately needs. And to our listeners
working in AI policy,
um, Roberta's experience provides
valuable insights into how governance
frameworks can be both protective and
enabling. and for AI entrepreneurs and
civil society leaders. Robera's approach
demonstrates the importance of engaging
with the democratic process and ensuring
that technological progress serves all
of mankind and all of humanity to
flourish. Thank you all for joining us
on the regulating yad podcast and Robera
for your continued work on advancing
responsible
uh digital transformation.
For our listeners for more episodes and
resources on AI policy and regulation,
visit our website and if you found this
conversation valuable, please subscribe
and share with others and like uh to
make AI more beneficial and trustworthy
for all. Robera, thank you so much. This
was very very helpful uh and informative
for me and for our listeners.
Thank you so much for inviting me. It
was a real pleasure. Thank you.
[Music]
