Welcome to another episode of Legal for
Tech, the podcast. So guys, you do
recognize my voice. It's always Rosie
here. And as I've said many many many
many times, this is just a group of
students and young professionals who are
very interested in anything that has to
do with technology and yes it's
regulation. So today I'm joined by my
friend and colleague and producer of
this podcast Jako Gregorio. Hi Jako,
great to see you.
>> Hi Rosie, great to see you as well.
Lovely to see you because today actually
we are talking much more about
regulation I would say than I mean of
course we're talking about technology
but we are at the core of regulation and
especially at the core of the greatest
regulation which is the GDPR in a way
it's the general data protection
regulation of the European Union and we
are here to talk about it with um
someone that is very famous on LinkedIn
but also very famous in our hearts. Um,
welcome to this podcast, Horge Garcia
Herrerero. Great to see you.
>> Hello.
>> Well, I am Garcia. You can call me Horge
Garcia or Giio or George or Jorgen or
Gay or whatever.
>> J
is also quite nice.
>> Okay, you can you can call me.
>> No, I'm joking. I will call you Horge. I
have been I have been called I have been
called many things in my life and I was
not very happy with it
>> whether some of them must be disclosed
in this podcast. Um so um let me ask you
so yes I said you're very famous on
LinkedIn because you have a great u
substack and newsletter which I um love
and follow but maybe some of our
listeners haven't come across your
content yet. So maybe if you could give
them a bit of a overview of your live
career mostly and also what you've been
doing these days um that would be great.
Okay, I will I will spare from from
hearing about my my life. But okay, I'm
a lawyer. I'm a DPO. I live in Spain.
Not in Madrid, not in Barcelona, but in
a little town much quiet and happy and
easy.
And well, my life is writing the
Substack and all my stupid and funny
things. I used to write in LinkedIn and
in, you know, not not so much in
Twitter. these last years, but also in
blue sky or most of all in Substack and
LinkedIn and in the very limited time
that my substack leaves me. Erh, I also
work for different companies and
generative AI and you know pharmacies
and well quite quite a good mix of
companies and well I like to read other
stuff and I like to read Roselia also
posts in linking and the comments on the
very very interesting papers and well
here I here I am to to speak with you
and Yako
And we we will go then for with the
first question for sure that is pretty
general from from me because I'm not a
lawyer and didn't study legal stuff. So
that's why I'm asking this like could
you talk us a little bit about uh
personal data? What are personal data
and why are important for us?
>> Oh my god that's a that's a very very
general question. Okay. I I will do like
the people I admire doing that is no
matter the question I will give the
answer I want and okay why is it
personal that important because it is
because data protection is one of the
most transversal disciplines and so that
and it's the base for the exercise of a
lot of rights and that's why it is
important and what is personal data that
thing is changing almost every day and
in the last few years it has changed
completely because we thought we knew
what personal data was. It was like a
binary thing. Something was personal
data or it wasn't personal data. But
since the last judgments of the European
card, we get that we have something
which is data that can be personal data
for me but not for Jako and could be no
could be nonpersonal data on Thursday on
Monday and could become personal data on
Thursday and that's what we got here and
we have to handle
>> that's that's absolutely brilliant how I
love the framing because um I feel like
um with technology it's difficult to put
things in a box um although technology
is supposedly something very boxable
because it's very technical. So if this
view that interpretation kind of um
evolves and shifts from one side to the
other whilst the technology behind it
technically is I mean it's rather um
descriptive rather than interpretive in
terms of value and and what um motivates
it motivates it's kind of like tell us
if we're talking about arisatilian um um
epistemology anyways um but the the
thing you said about the latest
decision. I think it was the 4th of
September that we received a very
important decision from uh CJU. Um that
really made some people very angry and
some people very happy and some people
very confused. Where do you stand on
this spectrum and why is that so?
>> No, that's a good question. Uh well, not
happy or not unhappy.
One thing I don't quite understand about
the September timing is that the
European card had said that exact same
thing for four times in a row before SRB
is scanning in September 25. So I didn't
understand the surprise at all. That's
that's the the the first thing. Uh
second um confused of course of course
because there were quite a few points
very confusing in that in that judgment
because they talked about consent in a
situation where nobody was talking about
consent not in the first sentence but in
the a in the general advocate in the ag
but uh about the scenia mainstream
doctrine
Uh it was said as I said four times
before and well
you can get confused you can get happy
or unhappy you have to handle it and for
for and and linking this discussion with
the one before no matter uh what the
digital omnibus is going to result about
the personal data definition we already
have these judgments of the European
card and we have to live with them. So
we have to get to uh put it to work.
>> Um talking about digital omnibus, a lot
of um kind of critiques where um let's
say advocating for the fact that the
digital omnibus
obviously implements decision but like
takes it out of context.
um is context that vital to the
understanding of SRB or would you say
actually it was the fourth or fifth
decision in in a role and context
doesn't matter that much because it's
it's the Jewish prudence that counts not
the context of of SRP
>> but I think both things are interwined I
I think context is king uh in data
protection I don't think there's
anything more important context. No
matter what concept you are discussing,
it changes in different situations. And
I am very
I I have a lot of fear to make big
affirmations or negations in data
protection because no matter what you
say in a few months or in a few years,
you are going to face some example that
is going to make you ask yourself if you
know anything about data protection at
all. because when you try to apply the
general principles again, you uh you
discover that you were wrong partially
or totally about what you thought and
that's the the thing that I like the
most of of data protection. Then about
the scania, scenia is based on context
and you have to assess if if the same
piece of information is personal for you
and not for me depending on your
availability to access different
databases uh in your organization in
thirds organization uh access possible
attacks from third parties you know so
it's everything about context but If you
ask a client, a client is going to say
you to say that you say context is king
h instead of saying it depends which is
the favorite sentence of of lawyers. But
this yes is the essence of data
protection.
>> Um so you you you hinted to the point in
scania and um of course um we talked
about srb a tiny bit. I'm just going to
ask you in terms of um clarity to
towards our listeners if you could just
um quite um quickly kind of summarize um
what the conclusion was between the two
cases and why one is a bit different
from the other if that's possible
>> between the the two cases between Scania
and SRV.
Oh my god. Well uh uh very shortly uh
Scania uh was talking about the VIN the
vehicle identification number which is
written in every truck.
Apart from the origin case, the cart
said that that bin that identification
number is going to be personal data. If
the holder of the data is able to link
that bin with the owner or the p of the
individual who drives the vehicle, it
will be personal data for for that
organization and if not not. That was
the main the main uh declaration. And to
assess that you have to study
uh the content, purpose and effects of
the data processing. And in light of
that you have to assess the means which
are at disposition of the data holder in
terms of money, uh people and time. the
effort you have to make to try to
identify that the data subject and it is
disproportionate
it will be not that personal data for
you. Uh that is Scania and and in the
SRV EDPS case or can I make this short?
Same thing. The same thing because it
was SRV and Deoid and the card said that
Deoid was not able to to know who the
data subjects were because they didn't
have access to the correlation table in
the in one sentence. I guess that's what
they said and they said some more things
about transparency but in the in the the
thing of the personal data concept
that's the the headline I guess
>> I have a right like maybe a slightly
more kind of I wouldn't say technical
question but like maybe looking at like
emerging technologies and what's
happening in the market right now of
course we know that you know Scania and
um SRB are kind of I would say narrow in
terms of the possibilities and the
disproportionate effort of looking for
that specific information that that
matching information that that you were
talking about. On the other hand, we
know that on the other hand of the
spectrum in a way there's AI technology
and the massive ability of making
incredible numbers of inferences, some
of them also wrong. Like it's not a
given thing that the AI knows that
Rosalia um does a podcast that's called
legal for tech potentially. It's it's a
probability that it's going to get the
right thing and also probability that
it's going to get the wrong thing.
Apparently I am an artist who died in
like 1952 or something. I I searched on
PT and I was like you got that wrong. Um
um
would you say that this probability idea
um makes it much more likely that some
data um that is um inserted input within
an AI is to be considered personal or
would you say like given that it is very
very little there is very very little
probability that the is going to match
you with the right type of information
that makes it unlikely therefore or not
personal data.
It depends
and it's it's again it's contextual
because if you get one of the big and
modern and powerful models and you put
it to work and I guess everyone has read
this paper and I guess I read it in one
of your post about these guys who put
the
the AI to work to try and reidentify the
people by seal you don't even uh
bundles in social networks and I guess
if I remember well they achieved to
identify 90% of the of the guys there
for one that's not a surprise because it
was able without AI. So with AI maybe
you say it's proalistic not
deterministic. So they are going to have
a lot of wrong positives or wrong
negatives. Okay. But uh most of the time
they're going to to success as it at it
and imagine this same question when we
reach the quantum computers it's going
to be wilder. So, so yes, the assessment
of the pro the probability of a
suitability for one organization to try
and identify people into one or
different data sets is going to be
something dynamic, ever changing and
each time easier and easier. I guess
>> I I guess that yeah there's also a
question about controllership because if
for example you are a deployer of an AI
system say an LM even um your
organization has an LM a chatbot that it
uses that is like my personal data
potentially asking the chatbot can I buy
a meds so say that is it's also
sensitive data because I I want to make
it difficult Um, let's say that that
data is going to be personal to your
organization, but it's potentially not
going to be personal to the AI provider
because maybe to the AI that information
is not personal. It's not identifiable
or is it? Are they joint controllers?
What would you say?
>> Why do you say it's not personal data
for the provider?
Um I know that there's like a um kind of
theory of data protection that says to
the AI that's not personal data because
the AI cannot really um match the two
parts. So the data with the person to
whom they belong with the data subject
because for the AI it's just an
inference. So it's it falls into a
bundle and a bunch of um let's say um
weights that do not have a bearing to
the actual information. So it's not
memorized. It's just inferred.
Um well there's of course another theory
in data protection that is like no the
AI memorizes your data. It knows exactly
who you are in in its own way but
technically it comes up with with
solutions that lead back to you. So I
would like to um kind of link this view
back to SRB and say is there really
personal data when we just look at the
AI model for example or are we talking
about a um kind of connection a matching
that can only happen at the
organizational level so at the deployers
level.
>> Okay. Okay. No, I get you. But again,
again, it depends because uh you get an
AI model and when you when you dig into
AI models and you compare different ones
and you try and understand how they are
trained and and everything, you realize
that uh it depends 100% on what is the
purpose or why
do you train that model for. You can put
the exact same training data set uh to
train different models with different
purposes. And in the training phase um
you can uh avoid certain risks or you
can uh make certain risks bigger. But
it's all it's not only in the training
in the training phase, but you can get
two very different animals working
later. And I don't like
again it's it's the same thing I I said
earlier. I don't like this general
affirmations that AI models don't have
the personal data. They don't know. they
they can't link people with information
because some can or some can't depending
on how you are trained or or what you
have trained them. Okay. And after that
you can have very different different
animals and what I guess they are making
this the big tech is making is working
very hard very hard on filters filters
on your questions or your prompts so
that any certain prompts don't reach the
model or certain outputs don't reach you
after they are uh they I mean you you
make the wrong prompt or the prompt they
know your their model don't have to
listen to to answer so they filter in
the in the connection between you and
the model or in in the output level
whenever the the answer comes from the
model before reaches you that's what uh
the the big uh model providers of
generative AI in images do with uh with
you know with porno images and things
like that sometimes the model is
perfectly capable of generating almost
everything but they work at the level of
filters. So uh I guess I I guess that
this is uh this is completely relative.
I mean there are models who can
perfectly pair you with your information
or not. But I don't like the idea to to
reach a general affirmation which is
applyable to every AI model. I I I don't
think that things work yet.
>> I mean, I I guess that's the issue with
legislation in a way because legislation
needs to be general enough to apply to
different cases and at least to a
category of technology. And then we have
the issue that every technology can be
made and can be easily actually suited
to different situations because we're
not talking about making a different car
because in in a car you have to work
with physics basically. you have to make
sure that the pieces kind of um hang in
there together. But when we talk about
technology, I mean this is mathematical
functions and this is like filters that
can I'm not saying cheaply but
definitely in a cheaper way than in cars
be installed upon technology and upon
specific models and can be uh made into
a system that takes into account
different things. So um my my question I
guess will be leading into into asking
does it make sense um considering the
kind of flexible nature of data
protection does it make sense to even
have a data protection regulation that's
so general and so broad or should we
have like little kind of principles and
then let the court apply them?
I think that's a question too big for
me, too big for my bolder head.
Some people I respect for their opinions
say that in this in this general terms
and also in the individual terms of
Scania, we need different solutions for
different contexts. again context is
king and and I don't know I don't know
about that because you know if you you
wait for the third resolutions to come
it takes five six years at least in the
GDPR context which is I guess very very
long time and we need uh well we need
I guess that what we think what what we
need is to be fair applying the general
principle
that that we need. And that's a
responsibility for for everybody, not
only for the judges, not only for not
not only for the lawyers, but also for
the engineers and the in the companies
that uh that are
making things every day. And
normally the this this terms about uh
what is good or what is bad for business
and for the European companies to
compete is I guess very very biased and
to to get to get to the digital omnibus.
I guess that the solution they have
proposed is very very sneaky because I
guess they have used the anchor bias. I
know you say Anchor Ano anor virus
because they proposed
a really nasty proposal
a lot of months ago and now they are
okay putting things
okay I guess we need some changes in the
the GDPR and and some could be useful
but the the point from it from where all
it started was so bad that uh that u I
am against the the whole the whole thing
and step by step we are reaching some
reasonable reasonable terms but my
biggest fear is that in the name of the
competitiveness in the European
sovereign entity and these big words we
are going to reach a very lesser
protective uh principles in the in the
GDPR I guess not I expect not but I
think that's that's the the the way we
are going
Um yeah, like I agree with you like on
on on the I guess not because I mean
we're still seeing the the CJU making
very very important decisions and kind
of reinstating the importance of the
fundamental right to privacy, the
fundamental right to data protection and
all the the fundamental rights linked to
it. And I'm just thinking of the Russ
media case in in general. It's it's that
kind of assertion that if your data, if
your privacy, if your if your data, if
your right to life really because I mean
sexual informations, I mean it's um it's
quite delicate as a topic um is being in
danger. It doesn't matter where the
commission is
um drifting towards let's say so it ma
what matters is your rights as a
European citizen. So I think you you
have a point there in saying like I hope
not and I think not because there's
still there's still a system in place.
There's still a balance. There's still
national courts. There's still national
legislations. There are still a a whole
um ecosystem of rights that um will not
fall before potentially a different kind
of wording in a in a legislation. But
still it's something that one needs to
be considerate about. Um would you say
that digital omnibus however definitely
helpsmemes
or would you say that in that case yeah
we're risking the rights to be kind of
undermined plusmemes are not that well
helped
>> I guess that the problem with the
digital omnibus and applying applying
the scan doctrine on digital omnibus if
we see the project from the content
purpose an effect mainly the purpose the
main thing is that it's very yield
projected because they have said a lot
of times that it's to help the small
companies to help the European companies
uh to well that that kind of things and
when you know uh the laws the the the
articles that are being uh touched and
reformed and you see the the the project
the the the wording they are presenting
that purpose is not fulfilled at all uh
with that project and that's I mean
that's in your face for anybody who
knows anything about about the the GDPR
and a lot of people can be happy and and
that's okay but the question is when you
are making a new law and there's a lot
of guidelines with your partner or your
I mean your not your partner but uh
Joanni Bhutarelli the the father morph
of data protection in in in Europe when
this necessity toolkit to assess the new
laws and the new normative in in in
Europe that's not the way this this must
work this this is uh broken from the
beginning and that's what I think about
the digital. So yeah, and it's a bit
tiring to to follow all the amendments
and the tree logs and and and
everything. I'm just waiting for the end
to come and to see what the new rules
are. And okay, but please don't don't
come to me saying that this for the
small startups and and everything
because I I cannot buy that. It's it's
terrible.
and then coming back with um after
listening
>> Jako Jako
>> yeah they're still me I was listening to
this this beautiful discussions that you
had and I and I'm back with one general
question because I'm the man of the
general questions before ending the this
episode uh I wanted to know from your
point of view what are you most looking
forward when it comes to the future of
data production in the next
I don't know. I I really don't have the
secret of happiness is in low expect
expectations and I have all the lowest
expectations as all the things are the
changes are very disrupted and very
quickly very quick and I really don't
know what is going to happen with us
lawyers or with you expert in politics.
I I guess you you are very better better
positioned that Rosalia and me as
lawyers. Yes.
Because when you see what Claude is
capable of, you ask yourself, I don't
know how long I'm going to be able to
feed my kids. But but but yes, I I have
very very low expectation. I am in a
very pessimist person with this. But
that's a reason to to fight and to do
things as as uh the better the better we
can reach them.
>> I think that's a very lawyer answer. I'm
very pessimistic about this. Not
perfect.
>> Are you are you optimist? I am not. I am
not. All the all the changes uh point at
the same direction which I don't like.
But but well we we will live with that
because there will be a lot of uh gray
areas to say it depends or context is
king and to have peace for it.
That's um amazing and that should be a
greater incentive for our listeners in
case you don't already to absolutely
follow and subscribe and read the zero
party data which is the great substack
newsletter that Horge writes and that I
um take a lot of information from uh
especially great memes. I have to say I
don't know how you do them but like
honestly I still have some of them in my
mind like forever literally like stuck
there. Um but um I also want to say that
the substack is is available if I'm not
mistaken both in Spanish and in English.
So that's also very helpful um for for
anyone who knows both languages. You can
also make comparisons.
>> Um
I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm
joking. Um, and also, um, before we let
you go, Horge, aside from the great
substack that I'm talking about, um, is
there anything else you would like to
suggest our listeners to maybe read, do,
uh, listen, watch, who knows?
>> Wow.
Well, I can recommend the the the two
books I have enjoyed better in the last
months was the empire of AI, which I
guess everybody has already read or
reshuffle. Rehuffle. I can't tell you
the the author is about the changes of
AI, not about the words of particular
people, but in terms of systems. It's
really really really great and really
enlightening. If you want, I can I can
send you an email with the with the
complete details if you want to to post
it. And I really like that uh I said
that I am very pessimistic and everybody
everything is going to be down and you
said that is the substitistic
trying to suicide and writing things for
everybody.
>> No, absolutely not. Actually the the
reason why I linked back to the substack
is because you said something important
which is understanding why we can say it
depends and context is king because I
feel like um lawyers get a lot of hatred
when the answer is well it depends and
you already see the clients there
thinking
don't please do not give me one yes and
one no. Um but I think that your
substack really helps understanding why
um lawyers tend to reply it depends and
why that depending is important. Um
because I I feel like if you come from
another industry and me too like I'm
still into the business of understanding
how law is made and how law is um agreed
and and defended. Um I would say it's
important to see the experience of
someone like you to understand like
really why we say it depends like the
the back thought and the back process
and and the substack is very good for
understanding the process of thoughts
that that lead you to it depends. One
little one little advice for the lawyers
who who hear that in case they don't
already know is that the you you should
say as as few times as possible. It
depends because those who say at at few
at few I mean
oh I I cannot I cannot say that if you
say it depends a lot you are not going
to be partner and if you say it depends
a lot you're going to be playing lawyer
all the time. I don't know what Peta
will think about this, but but it's
really difficult sometimes and the more
you know, the more difficult you you you
see everything. So, it's like
>> Peter is a very opinionated lawyer and
that I think he will agree when he will
listen to this podcast and then tell me
off for saying that. U
>> don't say that. Don't say that, Rosalia.
Don't say that. You have clear ideas.
You have solutions for everything. Don't
say it depends. I don't know. I have to
check it out. No,
>> the the the fact that I basically go
along my life asking questions will tell
you that I do not have clear ideas by
definition.
>> Well, thank you so much for joining us
on this podcast today.
It was a great great pleasure to meet
you in person uh well at distance. Um
and we really hope that you will keep on
listening to to legal tech as we will
keep on reading zero party data.
>> Of course. Of course. Thank you so much
also Jako who joined me and helped me
and will be uh finding a solution for
for getting this podcast together. Thank
you for producing this.
>> Thank you Rosalia for leading this.
>> Thank you. And this was all from the
legal for tech the podcast.
This episode was brought to you in
partnership with DG Beetle.
Digi Beetle tool helps privacy
professionals to stay upto-date with the
most important European documents in the
AI, data, and digital space every day.
Curious to know more? Check out the link
in our show notes.
